<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20091202_10-K_edgar_data_1001039_0001193125-09-245848_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5514901</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>404940</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>219589</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1204282</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1525456</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1764176</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>95</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-245848.hdr.sgml : 20091202

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20091202143613

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-245848

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		46

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091003

FILED AS OF DATE:		20091202

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20091202


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WALT DISNEY CO/

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001001039

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-MISCELLANEOUS AMUSEMENT & RECREATION [7990]

		IRS NUMBER:				954545390

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			0929



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11605

		FILM NUMBER:		091217225



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		500 SOUTH BUENA VISTA ST

		CITY:			BURBANK

		STATE:			CA

		ZIP:			91521

		BUSINESS PHONE:		8185601000



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		500 SOUTH BUENA VISTA ST

		CITY:			BURBANK

		STATE:			CA

		ZIP:			91521



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DC HOLDCO INC

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19950918




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JZUbdce6ZHawOrkF0bm7R8aDm89WYnnbSxI8Ht8CoH9xDdJytJUAX/DiaYr0QbON
 EcIIpasXrLOglU4xU1tyjw==

 0001193125-09-245848.txt : 20091202

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C.
20549       FORM 10-K       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934       

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of Each Class   
        
          Name of Each Exchange        
  on Which Registered            
 
    Common Stock, $.01 par value   
        
  New York Stock Exchange           
    Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      Yes                       No        Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.      Yes                  No             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      Yes                       No        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      Yes                       No        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [      ]      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer , and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one).      Large accelerated
filer                                                 Accelerated filer
                                        Non-accelerated filer (do not check if          smaller reporting
company)                                  Smaller reporting company
                             Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).      Yes                   No             The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates (based on the closing price on the last business day of the
registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter as reported on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions) was $31.9 billion. All executive officers and directors of the registrant and all persons filing a Schedule 13D with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect to registrant s common stock have been deemed, solely for the purpose of the foregoing calculation, to be  affiliates  of the registrant.      There were 1,865,010,858 shares of common stock outstanding as of November 20, 2009.       Documents Incorporated by Reference       Certain information required for Part III of this report is incorporated herein by reference to the proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of the Company s shareholders.   

Table of Contents  

      THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES        TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page   

PART I   

ITEM 1.   
        
     Business    
      
  1   

ITEM 1A.   
        
     Risk Factors    
      
  18   

ITEM 1B.   
        
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  23   

ITEM 2.   
        
     Properties    
      
  23   

ITEM 3.   
        
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  25   

ITEM 4.   
        
     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders    
      
  26   

Executive Officers of the Company     
      
  26   

PART II   

ITEM 5.   
        
     Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

27   

ITEM 6.   
        
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  28   

ITEM 7.   
        
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  29   

ITEM 7A.   
        
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  52   

ITEM 8.   
        
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  53   

ITEM 9.   
        
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  53   

ITEM 9A.   
        
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  53   

ITEM 9B.   
        
     Other Information    
      
  53   

PART III   

ITEM 10.   
        
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  54   

ITEM 11.   
        
     Executive Compensation    
      
  54   

ITEM 12.   
        
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    
      
  54   

ITEM 13.   
        
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  54   

ITEM 14.   
        
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  54   

PART IV   

ITEM 15.   
        
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  55   

SIGNATURES    
      
  58   

Consolidated Financial Information   The Walt Disney Company    
      
  60   

Table of Contents  

           (This page intentionally left blank)               

Table of Contents  

    PART I          ITEM 1.  Business       The Walt Disney
Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in five business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, Consumer Products and Interactive Media. For convenience,
the terms  Company  and  we  are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted.      Information on the Company s revenues, operating income, and identifiable assets appears in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company employed approximately 144,000 people as of October 3, 2009.       MEDIA NETWORKS
      The Media Networks segment is comprised of a domestic broadcast television network, television production and
distribution operations, domestic television stations, international and domestic cable networks, domestic broadcast radio networks and stations, and publishing and digital operations.       Domestic Broadcast Television Network       The Company operates the ABC
Television Network, which as of October 3, 2009, had affiliation agreements with 233 local stations reaching 99% of all U.S. television households. The ABC Television Network broadcasts programs in the following  dayparts : early
morning, daytime, primetime, late night, news, children and sports.      The ABC Television Network produces its own programs or
acquires broadcast rights from other third-parties, as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company and pays varying amounts of compensation to affiliated stations for broadcasting the programs and commercial announcements
included therein. The ABC Television Network derives substantially all of its revenues from the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates
received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts.      ABC.com is the official web site of the ABC Television Network and provides access to full length episodes of ABC shows online. ABCNews.com
provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online. ABCNews.com also offers broadband subscriptions to the 24-hour live internet news channel,  ABC News Now  and to video-on-demand news reports from all ABC News broadcasts.       Television Production and Distribution       The Company produces and distributes live action and animated television programming under the ABC Studios, ABC Media Productions, and ABC Family Productions labels. Program development is carried out in
collaboration with independent writers, producers, and creative teams, with a focus on half-hour comedies, one-hour dramas, and reality series primarily for primetime broadcasts. Primetime programming produced either for our networks or for third
parties in the 2009/2010 television season include the returning one-hour dramas  Army Wives, Brothers   Sisters, Castle, Criminal Minds, Desperate Housewives, Ghost Whisperer, Grey s Anatomy, Lost, Private Practice, Raising the Bar,
 and  Ugly Betty;  the returning half-hour comedies  Gary Unmarried  and  Scrubs;  and new primetime series that premiered in the fall of 2009 which included the one-hour drama  Flash Forward , and the half-hour comedies
 Cougar Town  and  Ruby   The Rockits .  Grey s Anatomy, Criminal Minds,  and  Ghost Whisperer  entered the domestic syndication market during 2009 .  We also produce  Jimmy Kimmel Live  for late night and
a variety of primetime specials for network television and live-action syndicated programming. Syndicated programming includes  Live! with Regis and Kelly,  a daily talk show,  At the Movies,  a weekly motion picture review program;  Who
Wants to Be a Millionaire,  a game show; and  Legend of the Seeker , a one-hour drama.      Disney-ABC Domestic Television
and Disney-ABC-ESPN Television International distribute the Company s productions domestically and internationally, respectively. The Company s productions are also distributed in DVD format by the Studio Entertainment segment and online.
        
   1   

Table of Contents  

    Domestic Television Stations       The Company owns ten television stations, six of which are located in the top-ten markets in the United States. All of our television
stations are affiliated with the ABC Television Network and collectively reach 23% of the nation s television households. Each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC Television Network, and syndicated
programming; the second is the Live Well HD Network; and the third consists of weather reports powered by AccuWeather.      Live
Well HD Network debuted in April 2009 and provides high-definition programming focusing on lifestyle topics such as interior design, healthy cooking, and outdoor activities.      Markets and details for the stations we own are as follows:       

(1)     
    Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2009          Cable Networks       Our cable
networks group provides national programming networks, licenses television programming in domestic and international markets and invests in foreign television broadcasting, programming, production and distribution entities. Programming at our cable
networks is both internally produced and acquired from third parties. The two primary brands for our cable networks are ESPN and Disney Channel. In addition to cable network operations, we have ESPN- and Disney- branded radio operations which are
managed together with the cable operations.      Cable networks derive a majority of their revenues from fees charged to cable,
satellite and telecommunications service providers (Multi-channel Video Service Providers or MVSPs) and, for certain networks (primarily ESPN and ABC Family), the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements.
Generally, the Company s cable networks operate under multi-year carriage agreements with MVSPs that include contractually determined fees. The amounts that we can charge to MVSPs for our cable network services are largely dependent on
competition and the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to
the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. Certain programming developed by our cable networks is also distributed in DVD format by our home entertainment division in the Studio Entertainment segment and online.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s significant cable networks and our ownership percentage and estimated
subscribers as of October 3, 2009 are set forth in the following table:       

(1)     
    Estimated U.S. subscriber counts according to Nielsen Media Research as of September 2009          

(2      )     

    Subscriber counts are not rated by Nielsen and are based on internal management reports. ESPN and A E programming is distributed internationally
through other networks discussed below.          ESPN  ESPN is a multimedia, multinational sports
entertainment company that operates six domestic television sports networks: ESPN, ESPN2, ESPN Classic, ESPNEWS, ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language network) and ESPNU (a network devoted to college sports). ESPN also operates four high-definition
television simulcast services, ESPN HD, ESPN2 HD, ESPNEWS HD and ESPNU HD. ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN owns, has equity interests in or has distribution agreements with 46
international sports networks reaching households in more than 197 countries and territories in 16 languages including a 50% equity interest in ESPN Star Sports, which distributes sports programming throughout most of Asia. ESPN holds a 30% equity
interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns The Sports Network, The Sports Network 2, Le R seau des Sports, ESPN Classic Canada, the NHL Network and Discovery Canada. ESPN also owns NASN Limited (NASN) which operates cable
television networks in Europe dedicated to North American sporting events.      ESPN also operates:       

ESPN.com   which delivers comprehensive sports news, information and video to millions of online fans each month          

ESPN360.com   which is a broadband service available to 50 million subscribers that delivers more than 3,000 live events

ESPN Mobile Properties   which delivers content, including live game coverage, alerts and highlights, to mobile service providers
           
   3   

Table of Contents  

ESPN Regional Television   which is a syndicator of collegiate sports programming          

The ESPN Radio Network and five ESPN Radio stations          

ESPN The Magazine          

BASS   which is an association of bass fishing enthusiasts          

ESPN Enterprises   which develops branded licensing opportunities          

ESPN Zone   which is a sports themed dining and entertainment facility.         ESPN holds a 20% equity interest in The Active Network, Inc., a domestic online community and marketing platform for individuals and event
organizers to participate in and promote sports and recreational activities.      The ESPN Radio Network is carried on more than
750 stations, of which 355 are full-time, making it the largest sports radio network in the United States.      Markets and
details for the stations we own are as follows:       

Market   
        
  Radio   Station    
        
  Broadcast     Band    
        
  Radio Market   Ranking    (1)        
 
    New York, NY   
        
  WEPN  
        
  AM  
        
  1   
 
    Los Angeles, CA   
        
  KSPN  
        
  AM  
        
  2   
 
    Chicago, IL   
        
  WMVP  
        
  AM  
        
  3   
 
    Dallas-Fort Worth, TX   
        
  KESN  
        
  FM  
        
  5   
 
    Pittsburgh, PA   
        
  WEAE  
        
  AM  
        
  25   
     
    The ESPN Zone concept combines three interactive areas under one roof for a complete sports and entertainment experience: the Studio Grill, offering dining in an ESPN studio environment; the Screening
Room, offering fans an exciting sports viewing environment; and the Sports Arena, challenging guests with a variety of interactive and competitive games. The Company currently operates six ESPN Zone restaurants located in Anaheim, California;
Baltimore, Maryland; Chicago, Illinois; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; and Washington, D.C. The Company also licenses an ESPN Zone restaurant located in Los Angeles, California.       Disney Channels Worldwide        Disney Channel  Disney Channel is a
24-hour cable network with programming targeted to children and families through original series and movies. Shows developed and produced internally for initial exhibition on Disney Channel include live-action comedy series, animated programming and
educational preschool series, as well as projects for the Disney Channel Original Movie franchise. Live-action comedy series include  Hannah Montana, JONAS, Sonny With A Chance, The Suite Life on Deck  and  Wizards of Waverly Place  .
 Disney Channel also airs the animated program,  Phineas and Ferb . Original series for preschoolers include the animated series  Disney s Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Handy Manny, My Friends Tigger   Pooh, Disney s Little
Einsteins  and  Special Agent Oso,  as well as the live-action series  Imagination Movers . Programming is also acquired from third parties and includes content from Disney s theatrical film and television programming library.
     The ABC Television Network s Saturday morning children s daypart,  ABC Kids  includes many of the
live-action and animated series produced for Disney Channel, including  Hannah Montana.         Playhouse Disney 
Playhouse Disney provides learning-focused programming for preschoolers. In the U.S., the daily Playhouse Disney programming block is aired on Disney Channel. Playhouse Disney is aired internationally with channels in Latin America, Europe, Asia,
Australia and Africa.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

    Disney XD  In February 2009, the Toon Disney television and online platforms in the
U.S. were rebranded to become Disney XD. Disney XD has a mix of live-action and animated programming for kids ages 6-14, targeting boys and their quest for discovery, accomplishment, sports, adventure and humor. The programming includes original
series, movies and short-form content, as well as sports-themed series developed with ESPN.      In the U.S., Disney XD is seen on
a 24-hour network. Disney XD channels have launched in Latin America, Europe and Asia building its distribution base to 107 countries/territories. As discussed below, many of the Disney XD channels were previously Jetix channels.       Disney Cinemagic  Disney Cinemagic is a premium subscription service in Europe. Disney Cinemagic shows Disney movies, classic and
newer Disney cartoons and shorts as well as animated television series such as  Disney s House of Mouse, Lilo   Stitch: The Series , and  Tarzan .       Jetix  During fiscal 2009, the Company acquired an additional 26% interest in Jetix Europe, a publicly traded pan-European integrated children s entertainment company (bringing our total
ownership interest to over 99%). The Company also has 100% ownership interest in Jetix Latin America. The Company is re-branding the Jetix channels to either Disney Channel or Disney XD which should be completed by the end of calendar year 2009.
      Hungama  Hungama is a kids general entertainment cable network in India which features a mix of anime, Hindi-language
series and game shows.       ABC Family  ABC Family is a U.S. television programming service that targets adults 18-34. ABC
Family s slate of original programming includes  The Secret Life of the American Teenager ,  Greek ,  Lincoln Heights  and the new series  Make It or Break It . ABC Family also premiered two new original comedies in 2009:
 10 Things I Hate About You , inspired by the hit 1999 film of the same name, and  Ruby   The Rockits . Additionally, ABC Family airs content acquired from third parties, and products from our owned theatrical film library. ABC
Family also features branded programming holiday events such as  13 Nights of Halloween  and  25 Days of Christmas .      ABCFamily.com creates digital extensions to ABC Family programming that feature interactivity and social networking. The site also features user-generated content and online programming that can be
downloaded and customized based on preferences of individual users.       SOAPnet  SOAPnet offers same day episodes of
daytime dramas at night for convenient viewing and also original programming. Programming includes same-day episodes of daytime dramas such as  All My Children ,  Days of Our Lives ,  One Life to Live ,  General Hospital  and
 The Young and the Restless ; primetime series  The O.C .,  One Tree Hill, Beverly Hills 90210 ,  The Gilmore Girls ; and original programs like  Southern Belles: Louisville ,  Being Erica ,  Holidate  and  Bank
of Mom and Dad.       Content related to SOAPnet s programming is available on SOAPnet.com, including video extras, games,
blogs, community forums, photos and downloadable content. Additionally, SOAPNETIC is a broadband fee service that provides behind-the-scenes coverage of the world of daytime dramas.       A E/Lifetime  On September 15, 2009, the Company and the Hearst Corporation (Hearst) both contributed their 50% interest in
Lifetime Entertainment Services LLC (Lifetime) to A E Television Networks, LLC (AETN) in exchange for an increased interest in AETN. The Company has a 42% ownership interest in the combined AETN/Lifetime. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion.      The A E Television Networks include A E, The History Channel, The Biography
Channel and History International. A E offers entertainment ranging from reality series to original movies, dramatic series, and justice shows. The History Channel offers original non-fiction series and event-driven specials. The Biography
Channel offers original series about prominent people and their lives, including the  Biography  series. History International focuses on the culture and history of various countries throughout the world from the perspective of locals.
Internationally, A E programming is available in 125 countries through joint ventures and distribution agreements with affiliates.      Lifetime Entertainment Services includes Lifetime Television, Lifetime Movie Network and Lifetime Real Women. Lifetime Television is devoted to women s lifestyle programming. Lifetime Movie Network is a 24-hour movie channel. Lifetime
Real Women is a 24-hour cable network with programming from a woman s point of view.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s share of the financial results of AETN/Lifetime is reported under the
heading  Equity in the income of investees  in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.       Radio
Disney  Radio Disney is a 24/7 radio network for kids, tweens and families. Radio Disney is available on 49 terrestrial radio stations and on RadioDisney.com, Sirius and XM satellite radio, iTunes Radio Tuner, XM/DIRECTV and mobile phones. Radio
Disney programming can be downloaded via the iTunes Music Store. Radio Disney is also available throughout most of South America via a separate Spanish language terrestrial broadcast.      Radio Disney stations we own are as follows:       

Market   
        
    Station    
        
  Broadcast   Band    
        
  Market   Ranking    (1)        
 
    New York, NY   
        
  WQEW  
        
  AM  
        
  1   
 
    Los Angeles, CA   
        
  KDIS  
        
  AM  
        
  2   
 
    Chicago, IL   
        
  WRDZ  
        
  AM  
        
  3   
 
    San Francisco, CA   
        
  KMKY  
        
  AM  
        
  4   
 
    Dallas-Fort Worth, TX   
        
  KMKI  
        
  AM  
        
  5   
 
    Houston, TX   
        
  KMIC  
        
  AM  
        
  6   
 
    Atlanta, GA   
        
  WDWD  
        
  AM  
        
  7   
 
    Philadelphia, PA   
        
  WWJZ  
        
  AM  
        
  8   
 
    Boston, MA   
        
  WMKI  
        
  AM  
        
  10   
 
    Detroit, MI   
        
  WFDF  
        
  AM  
        
  11   
 
    Miami, FL   
        
  WMYM  
        
  AM  
        
  12   
 
    Seattle, WA   
        
  KKDZ  
        
  AM  
        
  13   
 
    Phoenix, AZ   
        
  KMIK  
        
  AM  
        
  15   
 
    Minneapolis, MN   
        
  KDIZ  
        
  AM  
        
  16   
 
    Tampa, FL   
        
  WWMI  
        
  AM  
        
  19   
 
    Denver, CO   
        
  KDDZ  
        
  AM  
        
  20   
 
    St. Louis, MO   
        
  WSDZ  
        
  AM  
        
  21   
 
    Portland, OR   
        
  KDZR  
        
  AM  
        
  23   
 
    Charlotte, NC   
        
  WGFY  
        
  AM  
        
  24   
 
    Sacramento, CA   
        
  KIID  
        
  AM  
        
  27   
 
    Cleveland, OH   
        
  WWMK  
        
  AM  
        
  29   
 
    Salt Lake City, UT   
        
  KWDZ  
        
  AM  
        
  30   
 
    San Antonio, TX   
        
  KRDY  
        
  AM  
        
  31   
 
    Kansas City, MO   
        
  KPHN  
        
  AM  
        
  32   
 
    Orlando, FL   
        
  WDYZ  
        
  AM  
        
  34   
 
    Milwaukee, WI   
        
  WKSH  
        
  AM  
        
  37   
 
    Indianapolis, IN   
        
  WRDZ  
        
  FM  
        
  39   
 
    Providence, RI   
        
  WDDZ  
        
  AM  
        
  41   
 
    Norfolk, VA   
        
  WHKT  
        
  AM  
        
  43   
 
    Greensboro, NC   
        
  WCOG  
        
  AM  
        
  45   
 
    Jacksonville, FL   
        
  WBWL  
        
  AM  
        
  46   
 
    West Palm Beach, FL   
        
  WMNE  
        
  AM  
        
  47   
 
    Hartford, CT   
        
  WDZK  
        
  AM  
        
  50   
 
    New Orleans, LA   
        
  WBYU  
        
  AM  
        
  52   
 
    Louisville, KY   
        
  WDRD  
        
  AM  
        
  54   
 
    Richmond, VA   
        
  WDZY  
        
  AM  
        
  55   
 
    Albany, NY   
        
  WDDY  
        
  AM  
        
  63   
 
    Tulsa, OK   
        
  KMUS  
        
  AM  
        
  65   
 
    Albuquerque, NM   
        
  KALY  
        
  AM  
        
  68   
 
    Little Rock, AR   
        
  KDIS  
        
  FM  
        
  85   
 
    Wichita, KS   
        
  KQAM  
        
  AM  
        
  98   

6   

Table of Contents  

    Competition and Seasonality       The ABC Television Network, Disney Channel, ESPN, ABC Family Channel and the ESPN and Radio Disney networks and our other broadcast and
cable networks compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as DVDs, video games and the internet. With respect to the sale of advertising time, our broadcasting
operations, certain of our cable networks and our television and radio stations compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, MVSPs and other advertising media such as newspapers, magazines, billboards,
and the internet. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for viewers in individual market areas. A television or radio station in one market generally does not compete directly with stations in other markets.      The growth in the number of networks distributed by MVSPs has resulted in increased competitive pressures for advertising revenues for both
our broadcasting and cable networks. The Company s cable networks also face competition from other cable networks for carriage by MVSPs. The Company s contractual agreements with MVSPs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the
ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution
of its various cable programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.      The Company s Media
Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports and other programming. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming. The Company currently has sports rights agreements with the National Football
League (NFL), college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, National Basketball Association (NBA), National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR), Major League Baseball (MLB), World Cup and various soccer
leagues, and Golf and Tennis Associations.      The Company s internet web sites and digital products compete with other web
sites and entertainment products in their respective categories.      Advertising revenues at the Media Networks are subject to
seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain
affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met, and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second half of the Company s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition
during this period.       Federal Regulation       Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment
include the following:       

Licensing of television and radio stations.  Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are
granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (or the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to
have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have generally received such renewals and approvals in
the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals and approvals in the future.          

Television and radio station ownership limits.  The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in
a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently:

FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not
own more than one television station in any of the ten markets in which we own a television station.            
   7   

Table of Contents  

Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience (for this purpose, FCC regulations
attribute to UHF television stations only 50% of the television households in their market). For purposes of the FCC s rules, our 10 stations reach approximately 23% of the national audience.          

FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own
radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans.          

Dual networks.  FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major television networks   ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC   from being under
common ownership or control.          

Regulation of programming.  The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning  indecent  programming, regulating
political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children s programming. Broadcasters face a heightened risk of being found in violation of the indecency prohibition by the FCC because of recent FCC decisions, coupled with the
spontaneity of live programming. In the past several years, the FCC increased enforcement activities with respect to indecency, and a number of significant indecency cases against various broadcasters remain pending in the courts. Moreover, Congress
recently increased penalties for broadcasting indecent programming to a maximum of $325,000 per violation.         Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast channels are
generally required to provide a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has as a  significant purpose  meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television
station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance.       

Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations.  With respect to cable systems operating within a television station s
Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either  must carry  status, pursuant to which cable operators generally must carry a local television station in the station s market, or
 retransmission consent  status, pursuant to which the cable operator must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act
and its successor, the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a local television station s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. Under
must carry, if a satellite carrier elects to carry one local station in a market, the satellite carrier must carry the signals of all local television stations that also request carriage. Certain of the satellite carriage provisions are set to
expire on December 31, 2009, although legislation is pending that would continue many of the relevant provisions.          

Digital television.  All of the Company s stations now operate exclusively on digital channels, and we are evaluating various options with
respect to use of digital capabilities.          

Cable and Satellite Carriage of Programming.  The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and
satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. Litigation has been instituted against the Company, other program
providers and distributors seeking among other things to achieve similar ends. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could, depending on its specific nature, have an impact on the Company s operations.
        The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and other legislation and
of specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC s regulatory
authority.      FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation,
court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

    PARKS AND RESORTS       The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, the Disneyland Resort in California, the Disney Vacation Club, the Disney Cruise Line, and Adventures by Disney. The Company manages
and has effective ownership interests of 51% and 47%, respectively, in Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The Company also licenses the operations of the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. The Company s Walt Disney Imagineering unit
designs and develops new theme park concepts and attractions as well as resort properties. In November 2009, the Company s Project Application Report (PAR) for a Disney theme park in the Pudong district of Shanghai received approval from the
relevant authorities of the central government of China. The PAR approval will enable the Company and its Shanghai partners to move forward toward a final agreement to build and operate a park and begin preliminary development work.      The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues predominately from the sale of admissions to the theme parks; room nights
at the hotels; merchandise, food and beverage sales; sales and rentals of vacation club properties; and cruise vacation packages. Costs consist principally of labor; depreciation; costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold; marketing and sales
expense; repairs and maintenance; and entertainment.       Walt Disney World Resort       The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of owned land. The resort
includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney s Hollywood Studios and Disney s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf
courses; water parks; and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.      The Walt Disney
World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions in each of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.   
   Magic Kingdom    The Magic Kingdom, which opened in 1971, consists of seven themed lands: Main Street USA, Adventureland,
Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, Mickey s Toontown Fair and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed rides and attractions, live Disney character interaction, restaurants, refreshment areas and
merchandise shops. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza,  Wishes.          Epcot      Epcot, which opened in 1982, consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today
through major pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology improvements, communication, energy, transportation, using your imagination, life and health, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a
community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries represented with pavilions include the United States, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway and the
United Kingdom. Both areas feature themed rides and attractions, restaurants and merchandise shops. Epcot also features  Illuminations: Reflections of Earth,  a nighttime entertainment spectacular.         Disney s Hollywood Studios    Disney s Hollywood Studios, which opened in 1989, consists of a theme park, a radio
studio and a film and television production facility. The park centers on Hollywood as it was during the 1930 s and 1940 s and provides various attractions, themed food service and merchandise facilities. The production facility consists
of three sound stages, merchandise shops and a back lot and currently hosts both feature film and television productions. Disney s Hollywood Studios also features  Fantasmic !, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.       Disney s Animal Kingdom    Disney s Animal Kingdom, which opened in 1998, consists of a 145-foot Tree of Life
centerpiece surrounded by six themed areas: Dinoland U.S.A., Africa, Rafiki s Planet Watch, Asia, Discovery Island and Camp Minnie-Mickey. Each themed area contains adventure attractions, entertainment shows, restaurants and merchandise shops.
The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of trees and plants.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

    Hotels and Other Resort Facilities    As of October 3, 2009, the Company
owned and operated 17 resort hotels at the Walt Disney World Resort, with a total of approximately 22,000 rooms and 468,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, Disney s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area offers
approximately 800 campsites.      The Walt Disney World Resort also hosts a 120-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex
known as Downtown Disney, which consists of the Marketplace, West Side and Pleasure Island. Downtown Disney is home to the 50,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store featuring Disney-branded merchandise, Cirque du Soleil, the House of
Blues, and the Company s DisneyQuest facility. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company. In September 2008, the Company commenced a project to enhance Pleasure
Island, which will feature new shopping and dining experiences to entertain guests of all ages. The project is expected to be completed in 2012.      Disney s Wide World of Sports, which opened in 1997, is a 220-acre sports complex providing professional caliber training and competition, festival and tournament events and interactive sports
activities. The complex s venues accommodate multiple sporting events, including baseball, tennis, basketball, softball, track and field, football and soccer. Its stadium, which has a seating capacity exceeding 9,500, is the spring training
site for MLB s Atlanta Braves. The Amateur Athletic Union hosts more than 30 championship events per year at the facility. The Company is currently in the process of rebranding Disney s Wide World of Sports complex to ESPN s Wide
World of Sports, which is expected to be completed in 2010.      In the Downtown Disney Resort area, seven independently-operated
hotels are situated on property leased from the Company. These hotels have a capacity of approximately 3,700 rooms. Additionally, the Walt Disney World Swan and the Walt Disney World Dolphin hotels, which have approximately 2,300 total rooms, are
independently operated on property leased from the Company near Epcot.      Other recreational amenities and activities available
at the Walt Disney World Resort include four championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, water skiing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other noncompetitive sports and leisure time activities. The
resort also includes two water parks: Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon.       Disneyland Resort       The Company owns 461 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 49 acres of land in Anaheim, California. The
Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney s California Adventure), three hotels and Downtown Disney, a retail, dining and entertainment complex designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.      The entire Disneyland Resort is marketed as a destination resort through international, national and local advertising and promotional
activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants at both of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.       Disneyland    Disneyland, which opened in 1955, consists of Main Street USA and seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, New Orleans Square,
Tomorrowland and Toontown. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disneyland offers daily parades and a nighttime entertainment spectacular,  Fantasmic !.
      Disney s California Adventure    Disney s California Adventure, which opened in 2001, is adjacent to
Disneyland and includes four principal areas: Golden State, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, Paradise Pier and  a bug s land . These areas include rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.
     In October 2007, the Company announced a multi-year expansion that brings new entertainment and family-oriented attractions
to Disney s California Adventure, including an entirely new 12-acre Cars Land inspired by the animated film  Cars  and a new nighttime water spectacular,  World of Color .       Hotels and Other Resort Facilities    Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels: the 969-room Disneyland
Hotel, the 481-room Disney s Paradise Pier Hotel, and Disney s Grand Californian Hotel   Spa, a
        
   10   

Table of Contents  

deluxe hotel located adjacent to Disney s California Adventure. Disney s Grand Californian Hotel   Spa was recently expanded and now has 948 rooms as well as fifty vacation
club units.      Disneyland Resort also includes Downtown Disney, a themed 15-acre outdoor complex of entertainment, dining and
shopping venues, located adjacent to both Disneyland Park and Disney s California Adventure. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company.       Disneyland Paris       The
Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, a 4,800-acre development located in Marne-la-Vall e, approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France, which was developed pursuant to a 1987 master agreement with French
governmental authorities. The Company manages and has a 40% equity interest in Euro Disney S.C.A., a publicly-traded French entity that is the holding company for Euro Disney Associ s S.C.A.(Disney S.C.A), the primary operating company of
Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries operate Disneyland Paris, which includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park); seven themed hotels; convention centers; a shopping, dining and entertainment complex;
and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 4,800 acres comprising the site, approximately 2,400 acres have been developed to date which includes the Val d Europe development discussed below. An indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is
responsible for managing Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A .  is required to pay royalties and management fees to certain indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Walt Disney Company based on the operating performance of the resort.
      Disneyland Park    Disneyland Park, which opened in 1992, consists of Main Street and four principal themed areas:
Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland and Frontierland. These areas include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Disneyland Park also features a daily parade.         Walt Disney Studios Park    Walt Disney Studios Park opened in March 2002 adjacent to Disneyland Park. The park takes guests into
the worlds of cinema, animation and television and includes four principal themed areas: Front Lot, Toon Studios, Production Courtyard and Backlot. These areas each include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and
refreshment stands.       Hotels and Other Facilities    Disneyland Paris operates seven resort hotels, with a total of
approximately 5,800 rooms and 250,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, several on-site hotels opened between 2003 and 2006 that are owned and operated by third-party developers and provide approximately 2,400 rooms.   
  Disneyland Paris also includes Disney Village, a seven-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex, located between the theme parks and
the hotels. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to a subsidiary of Euro Disney S.C.A.      Val d Europe is a planned community that is being developed near Disneyland Paris. The completed phases of the development include: a town center, which consists of a shopping center; a 150-room
hotel; office, commercial, and residential space; and a regional train station. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries.      In fiscal 2005, Euro Disney S.C.A. completed a financial restructuring, which provided for an increase in capital and refinancing of its
borrowings. Pursuant to the financial restructuring, the Company agreed to conditionally and unconditionally defer certain management fees and royalties and convert them into long-term subordinated debt and provide a new ten year line of credit for
liquidity needs, which is currently  100 million.       Hong Kong Disneyland Resort       The Company owns a 47% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort through Hongkong International Theme Parks Limited, an entity in which the
Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) owns a 53% majority interest. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.      Located on 311 acres on Lantau Island, the resort is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort
includes one theme park and two themed hotels.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

    Hong Kong Disneyland    Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005 and consists of the
following themed lands: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Main Street USA and Tomorrowland. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, there are daily parades and a
nighttime fireworks extravaganza.       Hotels    Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels: the 400-room
Hong Kong Disneyland Hotel and the 600-room Disney s Hollywood Hotel.      In July 2009, the Company and the HKSAR agreed to
a capital realignment and expansion plan for Hong Kong Disneyland. The expansion will bring three new themed areas to Hong Kong Disneyland, which are scheduled to be completed in phases by 2014. Pursuant to the plan, the Company converted a loan to
Hong Kong Disneyland into equity and made an additional $40 million capital contribution and the HKSAR converted a like amount of its loan into equity. This increased the Company s effective ownership interest from 43% to 47% as of October 3,
2009. The Company expects to make additional capital contributions over approximately five years to fund the expansion of Hong Kong Disneyland. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      Based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, the Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees. The
Company has, however, waived management fees and deferred royalties for the 2008 and 2009 fiscal years.       Tokyo Disney Resort
      Tokyo Disney Resort is located on approximately 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The resort
includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); three Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; and a retail, dining and entertainment complex.       Tokyo Disneyland    Tokyo Disneyland, which opened in 1983, was the first Disney theme park to open outside the United States.
Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar.       Tokyo DisneySea    Tokyo DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, opened in 2001. The park is divided into seven unique  ports of call,  including Mediterranean Harbor, American
Waterfront, Port Discovery, Lost River Delta, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Arabian Coast.       Hotels and Other Resort
Facilities    The resort includes the 504-room Disney Ambassador Hotel, the 502-room Tokyo DisneySea Hotel MiraCosta and the 705-room Tokyo Disneyland Hotel. The resort also includes the Disney Resort Line monorail, which links theme parks
and resort hotels with Ikspiari, a retail, dining and entertainment complex; Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location; as well as the first Cirque du Soleil theatre in Japan.      The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC),
a Japanese corporation in which the Company has no equity interest. OLC markets the Tokyo Disney Resort through a variety of local, domestic and international advertising and promotional activities. In addition, third parties sponsor many of the
theme park attractions under long-term arrangements.       Disney Vacation Club       The Disney Vacation Club (DVC) offers ownership interests in ten resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland
Resort; Vero Beach, Florida; and Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Available units at each facility are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as rental property until the units are sold. DVC inventory consists of a mix
of units ranging from one bedroom studios to three bedroom villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two bedroom equivalents. As of October 3, 2009, DVC has 3,060 units including the second phase of Disney s Animal
Kingdom Villas, Bay Lake Tower at Disney s Contemporary Resort and the Treehouse Villas at Disney s Saratoga Springs Resort   Spa, all of which opened in 2009 on Walt Disney World Resort property. Additionally, DVC opened its
first property on the West Coast in 2009 with the opening of 50 units at Disney s Grand Californian Hotel   Spa at Disneyland Resort. In 2007, the Company purchased 21 acres of oceanfront property on the island of Oahu, Hawaii, which
will be home to a new DVC resort. This resort, scheduled to open in phases beginning in 2011, will include 350 traditional hotel rooms and 480 vacation club units.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    Disney Cruise Line       Disney Cruise Line, which is operated out of Port Canaveral, Florida, is a vacation cruise line that includes two 85,000-ton ships, the  Disney Magic  and the  Disney Wonder.  Both ships cater
to children, families and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. Each ship features 877 staterooms, 73% of which are outside and provide guests with ocean views. Cruise vacations often include a visit to Disney s
Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island. The Company packages three, four and seven-day cruise vacations with visits to the Walt Disney World Resort and also offers cruise-only options.      In 2007, the Company announced that it is expanding its cruise business by adding two new ships, the  Disney Dream  in 2011 and the
 Disney Fantasy  in 2012. The new ships will each be approximately 128,000 tons with 1,250 staterooms. In 2009, the Company announced that the  Disney Wonder  will move its home to the Port of Los Angeles in 2011, to accommodate Pacific
itineraries.       Adventures by Disney       Adventures by Disney, which began operations in 2005, offers a series of all-inclusive guided vacation tour packages at predominantly non-Disney sites around the world. The Company provided 22 specialized
excursion packages during 2009.       Walt Disney Imagineering       Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction and show design, engineering support, production
support, project management and other development services, including research and development for the Company s operations.       Competition and Seasonality       The Company s theme parks and resorts as well as Disney Cruise Line and
Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic
conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices and weather patterns.      All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Historically, the theme parks and resort
business experiences fluctuations in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months
when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.       STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT       The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical recordings
and live stage plays.      The Company distributes produced and acquired films (including its film and television library) in the
theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Each of these market windows is discussed in more detail below.      In
August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with DreamWorks Studios ( DreamWorks ) to distribute live-action motion pictures produced by DreamWorks over the next seven years under the Touchstone Pictures banner. As part of the
agreement, the Company will provide certain financing, which as of October 3, 2009, totaled $100 million.       Theatrical Market
      Walt Disney Pictures, a subsidiary of the Company, produces and acquires live-action motion pictures focusing on the
production of Disney-branded films that are distributed primarily under the Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures and Disneynature banners. Miramax Film Corp. (Miramax), another subsidiary of the Company, acquires and
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

produces motion pictures under the Miramax banner. The Company also owns and distributes motion pictures under the Dimension banner that were produced and distributed by the Company under that
banner with initial release dates before September 30, 2005. The Company also produces and distributes animated motion pictures under the banners Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar.      During fiscal 2010, we expect to distribute domestically approximately 14 feature films under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone
Pictures and Disneynature banners and approximately seven films under the Miramax banner. These releases include several live-action family films and full-length animated films, with the remainder targeted to teenagers and/or adults. As of
October 3, 2009, the Company had released domestically 949 full-length live-action features, 83 full-length animated features, approximately 548 cartoon shorts and 53 live action shorts under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone
Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax and Dimension banners.      We distribute and market our filmed products principally through
our own distribution and marketing companies in the U.S. In the international markets, we distribute our filmed products both directly and through independent distribution companies or joint ventures. Films released theatrically in the U.S. can be
released simultaneously in international territories or generally up to six months later.      The Company incurs significant
marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the
subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film.   
   Home Entertainment Market       In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases directly under each of our motion picture banners. In the international market, we distribute home entertainment releases under each of our motion picture banners both
directly and through independent foreign distribution companies. In addition, we acquire and produce original content for direct-to-video release.      The domestic and international home entertainment window typically starts four to six months after the theatrical release in each market with the issuance of a variety of physical and electronic versions
of each title (including DVD, Blu-ray and electronic formats). Most titles are sold simultaneously to both  rentailers,  such as Blockbuster, and retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy.      As of October 3, 2009 under the banners Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax and Dimension, there
were approximately 1,900 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,500 live-action titles and 400 animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 2,900 active produced and acquired titles, including 2,400
live-action titles and 500 animated titles, in the international marketplace.       Television Market        Pay-Per-View (PPV)/Video-on-Demand (VOD):  Generally about one to two months after the home entertainment window begins, the
studio s television distributors, Disney-ABC Domestic Television and Disney-ABC-ESPN Television International, license titles for use on a PPV/VOD basis in the cable and satellite markets, as well as for internet, console games, and mobile
platforms. PPV/VOD services deliver one-time rentals electronically to consumers at a price comparable to that of physical media rentals.       Pay Television (Pay 1):  There are generally two pay television windows. The first window is generally sixteen months in duration and follows the PPV/VOD window. The Company has licensed exclusive
domestic pay television rights to substantially all films released under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Touchstone Pictures, Hollywood Pictures, Miramax and Dimension banners to the Starz pay television service through fiscal 2013.       Free Television (Free 1):  The Pay 1 window is followed by a television window with telecasts accessible to consumers without charge.
This free window may last up to 84 months. Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window on an ad-hoc basis to major networks, including the ABC Television Network, and basic cable services, including ABC Family, Disney Channel, Disney XD,
and SOAPnet.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

    Pay Television 2 (Pay 2) and Free Television 2 (Free 2):  In the U.S., Free 1 is
generally followed by a fourteen- month Pay 2 window under our license arrangement with Starz, and finally by a Free 2 window. The Free 2 window is a syndication window where films are licensed both to basic cable networks and to third-party
television station groups. Major packages of the Company s feature films have been licensed for broadcast under multi-year agreements.       International Television:  The Company also licenses its theatrical and television properties outside of the U.S. The typical windowing sequence is broadly consistent with the domestic cycle such
that titles premiere on television in PPV/VOD then air in pay TV before airing in free TV. Windowing strategies are developed in response to local market practices and conditions, and the exact sequence and length of each window can vary country by
country.       Disney Music Group       The Disney Music Group includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records (including the Mammoth Records and Buena Vista Records labels), Lyric Street Records, Buena Vista Concerts and Disney Music
Publishing.      Walt Disney Records produces and distributes compact discs and music DVDs in the United States and licenses our
music properties throughout the rest of the world. Music categories include infant, children s read-along, teens, all-family and soundtracks from film and television series distributed by Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Channel. Hollywood
Records develops, produces and markets recordings from talent across a spectrum of popular music. Nashville-based Lyric Street Records develops, produces and markets recordings in the country music genre.      Each of the labels commissions new music for the Company s motion picture and television programs, records the songs and licenses the
song copyrights to others for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution. Buena Vista Concerts produces live-entertainment events with artists signed to the Disney Music Group record labels.
     Disney Music Publishing controls the copyrights of thousands of musical compositions derived from the Company s motion
picture, television, record and theme park properties, as well as musical compositions written by songwriters under exclusive contract. It is responsible for the management, protection, and licensing of the Disney song catalog on a worldwide basis,
including licensing for printed music, records, audio-visual works and new media.       Disney Theatrical Group       The Disney Theatrical Group includes both Disney Theatrical Productions and Disney Live Family Entertainment.      Disney Theatrical Productions develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events. The Company has produced and
licensed Broadway musicals around the world, including  Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King , Elton John   Tim Rice s  Aida ,  Mary Poppins  (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd),  TARZAN      , the professional touring stage version of  High School Musical,  and  The Little Mermaid . In addition,
the Company licenses musicals for local school and community theatre productions.      Disney Live Family Entertainment delivers
worldwide touring productions under the  Disney On Ice  and  Disney Live!  brands under a license to Feld Entertainment. North American tours for  Disney Live! Rockin  Road Show  and  Disney On Ice s  latest ice show,
 Celebrations!,  were launched in August 2009 and September 2009, respectively.       Competition and Seasonality       The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute
theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television programming services and sponsor live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support
and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses.      The success of Studio
Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television
markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

    CONSUMER PRODUCTS       The Consumer Products segment engages with licensees, manufacturers, publishers and retailers throughout the world to design, develop, publish, promote and sell a wide variety of products based on
existing and new Disney characters and other Company intellectual property through its Merchandise Licensing, Publishing and Retail businesses. In addition to leveraging the Company s film and television properties, Consumer Products also
develops new intellectual property with the potential of also being used in the Company s other businesses.       Merchandise Licensing
        The Company s worldwide merchandise licensing operations include a diverse range of product categories, the
most significant of which are: toys, apparel, accessories, footwear, home furnishings, home d cor, health, beauty, food, stationery and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties and
earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include  Mickey Mouse, Winnie the Pooh, Disney Princess, Cars, Hannah
Montana,  and  High School Musical.  The Company also designs individual products and creates exclusive themed and seasonal promotional campaigns for retailers based on characters, movies and TV shows.         Publishing       Disney
Publishing Worldwide (DPW) publishes children s books and magazines in multiple countries and languages. DPW s businesses include Disney Global Book Group, Global Children s Magazines, Disney FamilyFun Group, and Disney English. In
fiscal 2009, the Disney Global Books Group published titles around the world in support of such franchises as  Disney Princess ,  Disney Fairies ,  Winnie the Pooh, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Handy Manny, High School Musical, Cars
 and  Hannah Montana,  and of the films  Bolt, UP,  and  G-Force . The Global Children s Magazines business launched new titles in over 30 languages to support Disney Channel hits, including  High School Musical ,
 Hannah Montana ,  JONAS , and  Camp Rock.  The Disney FamilyFun Group includes the  Disney FamilyFun  and  Disney en Familia  magazines, special publications and branded books, and custom media solutions. Disney English
currently offers more than 400 hours of classroom programming for young children at five Disney English centers in Shanghai.       Retail  
     The Company markets Disney-themed products directly through retail stores operated under the Disney Store name and through
internet sites in North America (as DisneyStore.com and DisneyOutlet.com) and the United Kingdom (as DisneyStore.co.uk). The stores, which are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes, carry a wide variety of Disney
merchandise and promote other businesses of the Company. The Company owns and operates 231 stores in North America and 109 stores in Europe. In Japan, the stores are operated by a subsidiary of Oriental Land Co., Ltd. under a licensing arrangement.
      Competition and Seasonality       The Company s merchandise licensing, publishing and retail businesses compete with other licensors, publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names. Based on independent surveys, we
believe the Company is the largest worldwide licensor of character-based merchandise based on retail sales. Operating results for the licensing and retail businesses are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and
performance of animated theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.       INTERACTIVE MEDIA       The Disney Interactive Media Group creates and delivers Disney-branded entertainment and lifestyle content across interactive media
platforms. The primary operating businesses of the Disney Interactive Media Group are Disney Interactive Studios which produces video games for global distribution and Disney Online which produces web sites and online virtual worlds in the United
States and internationally. The Disney Interactive Media Group s internet operations derive revenue from a combination of advertising and sponsorships, subscription services and e-commerce. The Disney Interactive Media Group also manages the
Company s Disney-branded mobile phone initiative in Japan and provides technical infrastructure services to the Company s non Disney-branded websites, such
        
   16   

Table of Contents  

as ABC.com and ESPN.com, and to its Disney-branded e-commerce websites, principally DisneyStore.com and Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Online. The Disney Interactive Media Group is reimbursed
for the cost of providing these technical infrastructure services, and since these other websites are managed within the Company s other segments, the financial results of these websites are reported within the Company s other segments
rather than as part of the Disney Interactive Media Group.       Disney Interactive Studios       Disney Interactive Studios creates, develops, markets and distributes multi-platform video games worldwide based on the Company s
creative content, including  Pirates of the Caribbean, High School Musical  and  The Chronicles of Narnia  and from properties developed by Disney Interactive Studios, such as  Pure  and  Spectrobes.  The division has been
increasing its investment in internally developed and published games through the acquisition of studios and increased product development spending. Disney Interactive Studios also licenses properties for games, such as  Cars ,  Finding Nemo
 and  Ratatouille  to third-party publishers. The Company has a licensing agreement with THQ, Inc. that includes one upcoming Pixar title.       Disney Online       Disney Online develops, publishes and distributes content for Disney-branded online services
intended for family entertainment. Disney Online produces Disney.com, DisneyFamily.com, which is an online lifestyle destination for moms, and a portfolio of virtual worlds, including Club Penguin, Disney s Toontown and Disney s Pirates of
the Caribbean Online. Disney.com integrates many of the Company s Disney-branded internet sites including sites for the Disney Channel, Disney Parks and Resorts, Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Consumer Products.       Competition and Seasonality       The Company s internet sites and products compete with other internet sites and products. The Company s video game business competes primarily with other publishers of video game software and other types of home entertainment.
Operating results for the video game business fluctuate due to the timing and performance of video game releases which are determined by several factors, including theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, competition and the timing of
holiday periods. Revenues from our internet and mobile operations are generally not subject to significant seasonal trends.       INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY PROTECTION       The Company s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect
against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games,
sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are set forth in Item 1A   Risk Factors.       AVAILABLE INFORMATION       Our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed
electronically with the SEC. We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report.
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 1A.  Risk Factors       For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance.
In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant factors affecting our
operations include the following:       Recent changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect
on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.       The recent decline in economic activity in the United States and
other regions of the world in which we do business has affected demand for some of our products and services, and continuation of this condition could adversely affect demand for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. The
decline in economic conditions has reduced and could continue to reduce spending at our parks and resorts, purchase of or prices for advertising on our broadcast or cable networks or owned stations, performance of our home entertainment releases,
and purchases of Company-branded consumer products. A continuing decline in economic conditions could also reduce attendance at our parks and resorts or prices that MVSPs pay for our cable programming. Economic conditions have also and could
continue to impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, could result in a shift in
consumer demand away from the entertainment and consumer products we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. Changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies may reduce international demand
for our products, increase our labor or supply costs in non-United States markets, or reduce the United States dollar value of revenue we receive from other markets.       Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment and consumer products could reduce demand for our entertainment offerings and products and adversely affect the profitability of
any of our businesses.       Each of our businesses creates entertainment or consumer products whose success depends
substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create and distribute filmed entertainment, broadcast and cable programming, online
material, electronic games, theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and consumer products that meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. Many of our businesses increasingly depend on worldwide acceptance of our
offerings and products outside the United States, and their success therefore depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside as well as inside the United States. Moreover, we must often
invest substantial amounts in film production, broadcast and cable programming, electronic games, theme park attractions, or hotels and other resort facilities before we learn the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance. If our
entertainment offerings and products do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue from advertising sales (which are based in part on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air) or subscription fees for broadcast and cable
programming and online services, from theatrical film receipts or home video or electronic game sales, from theme park admissions, hotel room charges and merchandise, food and beverage sales, from sales of licensed consumer products or from sales of
our other consumer products and services may decline and adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses.       Changes in
technology and in consumer consumption patterns may affect demand for our entertainment products or the cost of producing or distributing products.       The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate depend significantly on our ability to acquire, develop, adopt and exploit new technologies to distinguish our products and services
from those of our competitors. In addition, new technologies affect the demand for our products, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their
desired markets. For example:       

the success of our offerings in the home entertainment market depends in part on consumer preferences with respect to home entertainment formats,
including DVD players and personal video recorders, as well as the availability of alternative home entertainment offerings and technologies, including web-based delivery of entertainment offerings;            
   18   

Table of Contents  

technological developments offer consumers an expanding array of entertainment options and if consumers favor options we have not yet fully developed
rather than the entertainment products we offer, our sales may be adversely affected.          The success of our businesses is
highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create.       The value to us of our intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of our rights as defined by applicable laws in the United States and abroad and the manner in which those laws
are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining
and maintaining rights may increase.      The unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights may increase the cost of
protecting these rights or reduce our revenues. New technologies such as the convergence of computing, communication, and entertainment devices, the falling prices of devices incorporating such technologies, and increased broadband internet speed
and penetration have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging. There is evidence that
unauthorized use of intellectual property rights in the entertainment industry generally is a significant and rapidly growing phenomenon. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect intellectual property in one country can adversely
affect the results of the Company s operations worldwide, despite the Company s efforts to protect its intellectual property rights. These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our intellectual property
against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed digital distribution of our content and sales of unauthorized DVDs, Blu-ray discs and other products.      With respect to intellectual property developed by the Company and rights acquired by the Company from others, the Company is subject to the
risk of challenges to our rights in intellectual property by third parties. Successful challenges to our rights in intellectual property may result in increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from the
intellectual property that is the subject of challenged rights. The Company is not aware of any challenges to its intellectual property rights that it currently foresees having a material effect on its operations.       A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce demand for our products and services, impair our ability to provide our products and services or increase
the cost of providing our products and services.       Demand for our products and services, particularly our theme parks and
resorts, is highly dependent on the general environment for travel and tourism. The environment for travel and tourism, as well as demand for other entertainment products, can be significantly adversely affected in the United States, globally or in
specific regions as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: adverse weather conditions or natural disasters (such as excessive heat or rain, hurricanes and earthquakes); health concerns; international, political or military
developments; and terrorist attacks. These events and others, such as fluctuations in travel and energy costs and computer virus attacks or other widespread computing or telecommunications failures, may also damage our ability to provide our
products and services or to obtain insurance coverage with respect to these events. In addition, we derive royalties from the sales of our licensed goods and services by third parties and the management of businesses operated under brands licensed
from the Company, and we are therefore dependent on the successes of those third parties for that portion of our revenue. A wide variety of factors could influence the success of those third parties and if negative factors significantly impacted a
sufficient number of our licensees they could adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses. We obtain insurance against the risk of losses relating to some but not all of these events, and when insurance is obtained it is
subject to deductibles, exclusions and caps. The types and levels of coverage we obtain vary from time to time depending on our view of the likelihood of specific types and levels of loss in relation to the cost of obtaining coverage for such types
and levels of loss.       Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses may increase our costs or otherwise affect the
profitability of our businesses.       As changes in our business environment occur we may need to adjust our business
strategies to meet these changes or we may otherwise find it necessary to restructure our operations or particular businesses or assets. In
        
   19   

Table of Contents  

addition, external events including acceptance of our theatrical offerings and changes in macro-economic conditions may impair the value of our assets. When these changes or events occur, we may
incur costs to change our business strategy and may need to write down the value of assets. We may also need to invest in new businesses that have short-term returns that are negative or low and whose ultimate business prospects are uncertain. In
any of these events, our costs may increase, we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets or returns on new investments may be lower than prior to the change in strategy or restructuring.       Turmoil in the financial markets could increase our cost of borrowing and impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and
investments.       U.S. and global credit and equity markets experienced significant disruption beginning in late 2008, making
it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets experienced rapid and wide fluctuations in value. These conditions tended to increase the cost of borrowing and if they recur, our cost of
borrowing could increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are
based, in significant part, on the Company s performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us
to obtain financing. The disruption in the global financial markets also impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. A similar decline in the financial stability of financial institutions could affect our ability to secure
credit-worthy counterparties for our interest rate and foreign currency hedging programs and could affect our ability to settle existing contracts.       Increased competitive pressures may reduce our revenues or increase our costs.       We face substantial
competition in each of our businesses from alternative providers of the products and services we offer and from other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. We also must compete to obtain human resources, programming
and other resources we require in operating our business. For example:       

Our broadcast and cable networks, stations and online offerings compete for viewers with other broadcast, cable and satellite services as well as with
home video products and internet usage.          

Our broadcast and cable networks and stations compete for the sale of advertising time with other broadcast, cable and satellite services, and the
internet, as well as with newspapers, magazines and billboards.          

Our cable networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers.          

Our broadcast and cable networks compete for the acquisition of creative talent and sports and other programming with other broadcast and cable
networks.          

Our theme parks and resorts compete for guests with all other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreation activities.

Our studio operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment.          

Our studio operations, broadcast and cable networks and publishing businesses compete to obtain creative and performing talent, story properties,
advertiser support, broadcast rights and market share.          

Our consumer products segment competes in the character merchandising and other licensing, publishing, and retail activities with other licensors,
publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names.          

Our interactive media video game operations compete primarily with other publishers of video game software and other types of home entertainment.
        Competition in each of these areas may divert consumers from our creative or other products, or to other
products or other forms of entertainment, which could reduce our revenue or increase our marketing costs. Competition for the acquisition of resources can increase the cost of producing our products and services.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

    Sustained increases in costs of pension and postretirement medical and other employee health and welfare
benefits may reduce our profitability.       With approximately 144,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected
by costs of pension benefits and current and postretirement medical benefits. We may experience significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors, which are beyond our control, including increases in the cost of health care.
In addition, changes in investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs in some years. These macro-economic factors as well as
the decline in the fair value of pension plan assets may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and medical benefits and may increase future funding contributions. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs,
there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses.       Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming or carriage contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms.       We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for
the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to MVSPs. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if we are unable to renew them
on acceptable terms, we may lose programming rights or distribution rights. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining programming rights may increase (or increase at faster rates than our historical experience) or the revenue from
distribution of programs may be reduced (or increase at slower rates than our historical experience). With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our
results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer audiences. There can be no assurance that revenues from programming based
on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming.       Changes in
regulations applicable to our businesses may impair the profitability of our businesses.       Our broadcast networks and
television stations are highly regulated, and each of our other businesses is subject to a variety of United States and overseas regulations. These regulations include:       

United States FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks, and our owned television stations. See
Item 1   Business   Media Networks, Federal Regulation.          

Environmental protection regulations.          

Federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations.          

Regulation of the safety of consumer products and theme park operations.          

Imposition by foreign countries of trade restrictions or motion picture or television content requirements or quotas.          

Domestic and international tax laws or currency controls.         Changes in any of these regulatory areas may require us to spend additional amounts to comply with the regulations, or may restrict our
ability to offer products and services that are profitable.       Labor disputes may disrupt our operations and adversely affect the
profitability of any of our businesses.       A significant number of employees in various of our businesses are covered by
collective bargaining agreements, including employees of our theme parks and resorts as well as writers, directors, actors, production personnel and others employed in our media networks and studio operations. In addition, the employees of licensees
who manufacture and retailers who sell our consumer products may be covered by labor agreements with their employers. In general, a labor dispute involving our employees or the employees of our licensees or retailers who sell our consumer products
may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and resolution of disputes may increase our costs.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

    Provisions in our corporate documents and Delaware state law could delay or prevent a change of control,
even if that change would be beneficial to shareholders.       Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains a provision
regulating the ability of shareholders to bring matters for action before annual and special meetings and authorizes our Board of Directors to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. The regulations on shareholder action could make it more
difficult for any person seeking to acquire control of the Company to obtain shareholder approval of actions that would support this effort. The issuance of preferred stock could effectively dilute the interests of any person seeking control or
otherwise make it more difficult to obtain control. In addition, provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation require supermajority shareholder approval of some acquisition transactions and we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions
of the Delaware General Corporation Law, either of which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control in some circumstances.       The seasonality of certain of our businesses could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations.       Each of our
businesses is normally subject to seasonal variations, as follows:       

Revenues in our Media Networks segment are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. In general, advertising revenues
are somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met,
and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second half of the Company s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition during this period.          

Revenues in our Parks and Resorts segment fluctuate with changes in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of
vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.          

Revenues in our Studio Entertainment segment fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment, and
television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.          

Revenues in our Consumer Products segment are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and performance of theatrical
releases and cable programming broadcasts.          

Revenues in our Interactive Media segment fluctuate due to the timing and performance of video game releases which are determined by several factors,
including theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, competition and the timing of holiday periods. Revenues from certain of our internet and mobile operations are subject to similar seasonal trends.         Accordingly, if a short term negative impact on our business occurs during a time of high seasonal demand (such as hurricane damage to our
parks during the summer travel season), the effect could have a disproportionate effect on the results of that business for the year.       The
Company s acquisition of Marvel is expected to cause short term dilution in earnings per share and there can be no assurance that anticipated improvements in earnings per share will be realized.       On August 31, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire Marvel Entertainment, Inc. in a merger transaction. Based on the
number of fully diluted shares of Marvel common stock outstanding as of September 18, 2009, the Company expects (assuming there is no adjustment to the exchange ratio) that the number of issued and outstanding shares will increase by
approximately 58.5 million shares as a result of the merger. We expect that the merger will initially result in lower earnings per share than we would have earned in the absence of the merger. We expect that over time the merger will yield
benefits to the combined company such that the merger will ultimately be accretive to earnings per share. However, there can be no assurance that the increase in earnings per share expected in the long term will be achieved. In order to achieve
increases in earnings per share as a result of the merger, the combined company will, among other things, need to effectively continue the successful operations of Marvel after the
        
   22   

Table of Contents  

merger, develop successful new content (including future feature films and television series or sequels to Marvel productions) based on Marvel characters and successfully integrate Marvel
products into the combined company s various distribution channels.         ITEM 1B.   Unresolved
Staff Comments       The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of
the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.         ITEM 2.   Properties       The Walt Disney World Resort, Disneyland Resort
and other properties of the Company and its subsidiaries are described in Item 1 under the caption  Parks and Resorts . Film library properties are described in Item 1 under the caption  Studio Entertainment . Radio and
television stations owned by the Company are described under the caption  Media Networks .         
   23   

Table of Contents  

   The Company and its subsidiaries own and lease properties throughout the world. In addition
to the properties noted above, the table below provides a brief description of other significant properties and the related business segment.       

Location   
      
    Property /       Approximate Size     
      
      Use     
      
      Business Segment    (1)         
 
    Burbank, CA   
      
  Land (52 acres)   Buildings (2,000,000 ft   2   )  
      
    Owned Office/Production/     Warehouse   
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP   

Burbank, CA   surrounding cities    (2)      
      
  Buildings (1,800,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Leased Office/Warehouse (includes 12,000 ft   2 
   sublet to third party tenants)  
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

Glendale, CA   North Hollywood, CA   
      
  Land (154 acres)   Buildings (2,500,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Owned Office/Warehouse (includes 650,000 ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/TP R/IMG   

Glendale, CA   
      
  Buildings (160,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Leased Office/Warehouse  
      
  Corp   

Los Angeles, CA   
      
  Land (22 acres)   Buildings (600,000 ft   2   )  
      
    Owned Office/Production/     Technical   
      
  Media   

Los Angeles, CA   
      
  Buildings (180,000 ft   2   )  
      
    Leased Office/Production/     Technical   
      
  Media/Studio/IMG   

New York, NY   
      
  Land (6.5 acres)   Buildings (1,400,000 ft   2   )  
      
    Owned Office/Production/     Technical (includes 15,000 ft   2    sublet to
third party tenants)   
      
  Media   

New York, NY   
      
  Buildings (660,000 ft   2   )  
      
    Leased Office/Production/     Warehouse (includes 10,000 ft   2    sublet to
third party tenants)   
      
  Studio/Media/IMG   

Bristol, CT   
      
  Land (115 acres)   Buildings (720,000 ft   2 
  )  
      
    Owned Office/Production/     Technical   
      
  Media   

Bristol, CT   
      
  Buildings (440,000 ft   2   )  
      
    Leased Office/Warehouse/     Technical   
      
  Media   

Emeryville, CA   
      
  Land (21 acres)   Buildings (270,000ft   2 
  )  
      
    Owned Office/Production/     Technical (includes 20,000 ft   2    sublet to
third party tenants)   
      
  Studio   

Emeryville, CA   
      
  Buildings (125,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Leased Office/Storage  
      
  Studio   

USA   Canada   
      
  Land and Buildings (Multiple sites and sizes)  
      
  Owned and Leased Office/ Production/Transmitter/Retail/ Warehouse  
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/ TP R/IMG   

Hammersmith, England   
      
  Land (1 acre)   Building (85,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Owned Office  
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

Hammersmith, England   
      
  Building (225,000 ft   2   )  
      
  Leased Office (includes 25,000 ft   2    sublet to third party tenants)  
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

Europe, Asia, Australia   Latin America   
      
  Buildings (Multiple sites and sizes)  
      
  Leased Office/Retail/Warehouse  
      
  Corp/Studio/Media/CP/IMG   

(1)     
    Corp   Corporate, CP   Consumer Products, TP R   Theme Parks and Resorts and IMG   Interactive Media Group

(2)     
    Surrounding cities include North Hollywood, CA and Sun Valley, CA            
   24   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings        Milne and Disney Enterprises, Inc. v. Stephen Slesinger, Inc.  On November 5, 2002, Clare Milne, the granddaughter of A. A.
Milne, author of the Winnie the Pooh books, and the Company s subsidiary Disney Enterprises, Inc. (DEI) filed a complaint against Stephen Slesinger, Inc. (SSI) in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. On
November 4, 2002, Ms. Milne served notices to SSI and DEI terminating A. A. Milne s prior grant of rights to Winnie the Pooh, effective November 5, 2004, and granted all of those rights to DEI. In their lawsuit, Ms. Milne
and DEI sought a declaratory judgment, under United States copyright law, that Ms. Milne s termination notices were valid; that SSI s rights to Winnie the Pooh in the United States terminated effective November 5, 2004; that upon
termination of SSI s rights in the United States, the 1983 licensing agreement that is the subject of the  Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. The Walt Disney Company  lawsuit (the  state court action ) terminated by operation of law; and
that, as of November 5, 2004, SSI was entitled to no further royalties for uses of Winnie the Pooh. SSI filed (a) an answer denying the material allegations of the complaint and (b) counterclaims seeking a declaration that
(i) Ms. Milne s grant of rights to DEI is void and unenforceable and (ii) DEI remains obligated to pay SSI royalties under the 1983 licensing agreement. The District Court ruled that Milne s termination notices were invalid.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, and on June 26, 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied Milne s petition for a writ of certiorari. On August 1, 2003, SSI filed an amended answer and counterclaims and a
third-party complaint against Harriet Hunt (heir to E. H. Shepard, illustrator of the original Winnie the Pooh stories), who had served a notice of termination and a grant of rights similar to Ms. Milne s, and asserted counterclaims
against the Company allegedly arising from the Milne and Hunt terminations and the grant of rights to DEI for (a) unlawful and unfair business practices; and (b) breach of the 1983 licensing agreement.      On October 19, 2006, the parties stipulated to SSI s filing its Fourth Amended Answer and Counterclaims (Fourth Amended Answer)
seeking (a) to invalidate the Hunt termination notice, (b) to terminate the Company s rights vis- -vis SSI, and (c) damages in excess of two billion dollars, among other relief. That stipulation also provided that Hunt and
the Company need not respond to the Fourth Amended Answer until the conclusion of two events: the state court appeal in  Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. The Walt Disney Company , and the trial in the District Court on the validity of the Hunt
termination notice. SSI then sought to withdraw both the Fourth Amended Answer and its stipulation, but on November 3, 2006, the District Court denied that request. SSI s motion for summary judgment on the validity of Hunt s 2002
attempt to recapture E. H. Shepard s rights was granted on February 15, 2007, and thereafter, on March 27, 2007, the District Court dismissed as moot all claims against Hunt and three of SSI s counterclaims against the Company
related to the Company s agreements with Milne and Hunt concerning the termination and disposition of their rights. On January 3, 2008, the California Supreme Court denied SSI s petition for review in the state court action, whereupon
on April 21, 2008, the Company moved for summary judgment on all of SSI s claims in the District Court action. On June 3, 2008, the District Court ordered further briefing on the issue of whether SSI s misconduct in the state
court action warrants dismissal of all of its claims in the District Court, and then on July 29, 2008, the District Court referred the summary judgment motion to a Special Master, who rendered a sealed recommendation on March 26, 2009. On
May 19, 2009, the District Court granted the Company s motion for summary judgment and dismissed without prejudice SSI s four contract and fraud counterclaims and invited the parties to file summary judgment motions on the remaining
infringement and unfair competition claims. On September 25, 2009, the District Court granted the Company s motion for summary judgment on SSI s remaining claims and on October 21, 2009, SSI and the Company filed applications for
attorneys  fees. On November 5, 2009, SSI appealed from the District Court s judgment to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.      Relatedly, on December 4, 2006, August 22, 2007, February 8, April 18, August 27 and October 31, 2008, and February 17, July 27, and
November 17, 2009, SSI initiated proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) seeking cancellation of certain Winnie the Pooh trademark registrations and opposing applications for other Winnie the Pooh trademarks. Prior to
July 27, the PTO had already suspended the then-pending proceedings on the grounds that the relief sought is effectively duplicative of that sought in the Fourth Amended Answer. On October 8, 2009, the Company advised the PTO of the
District Court s grant of summary judgment against SSI, and requested dismissal of all of SSI s pending proceedings. Also, on April 18, October 16 and October 27, 2008 and July 28, 2009, SSI initiated actions
before the Canadian Intellectual Property Office ( CIPO ) opposing applications for certain Winnie the Pooh trademarks. On August 4, 2009, SSI requested an extension of time to oppose another application by the Company for a Winnie
the Pooh trademark. On September 4, 2008, and February 12 and March 10, 2009, the Company filed answers to the actions before the CIPO, denying SSI s claims.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

   The Company, together with, in some instances, certain of its directors and officers, is a
defendant or codefendant in various other legal actions involving copyright, breach of contract and various other claims incident to the conduct of its businesses. Management does not expect the Company to suffer any material liability by reason of
such actions.         ITEM 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       No matters were submitted to a vote of shareholders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.         Executive Officers of the Company       The executive officers of the Company are elected each year at the organizational meeting of the Board of Directors, which follows the annual meeting of the shareholders, and at other Board of Directors
meetings, as appropriate. Each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company in the position or positions indicated in the list and pertinent notes below. Except as noted, each of the executive officers has been employed by the Company
for more than five years.      At October 3, 2009, the executive officers of the Company were as follows:       

Name   
      
    Age    
        
      Title     
        
  Executive     Officer Since     
 
    Robert A. Iger   
      
  58  
        
  President and Chief Executive Officer   
(1)     
        
  2000   

Thomas O. Staggs   
      
  48  
        
    Senior Executive Vice President and Chief     Financial Officer   
        
  1998   

Alan N. Braverman   
      
  61  
        
    Senior Executive Vice President, General     Counsel and Secretary   
        
  2003   

Kevin A. Mayer   
      
  47  
        
  Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development and Technology    (2)     
        
  2005   

Christine M. McCarthy   
      
  54  
        
    Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance     and Real Estate and Treasurer    (3)      
        
  2005   

Mary Jayne Parker   
      
  48  
        
  Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer    (4)     
        
  2009   

(1)     
    Mr. Iger was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective October 2, 2005. He was President and Chief Operating Officer from
January 2000.          

(      2      )     
    Mr. Mayer was named Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, and Technology of the Company in June 2005 and was
designated an executive officer in October 2005. He previously was Partner and Head of the Global Media and Entertainment Practice of L.E.K. Consulting LLC, a consulting firm, from February 2002.          

(3)     
    Ms. McCarthy was named Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Real Estate in June 2005 and has been Treasurer since January 2000. Prior
to her appointment as Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Real Estate, Ms. McCarthy was Senior Vice President and Treasurer from January 2000 to June 2005.          

(4)     
    Ms. Parker was named Executive Vice President   Human Resources and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company, effective September 1,
2009, and designated an executive officer of the Company October 2, 2009. Ms. Parker was previously Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts from October 2005 to July 2007 and Vice President Human
Resources Administration for Walt Disney Parks and Resorts from March 2003 to October 2005.         On
November 12, 2009, the Company announced that Mr. Staggs would become Chairman, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Worldwide, effective January 1, 2010, and that James A. Rasulo, currently Chairman, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Worldwide,
will become Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Mr. Rasulo, 53, has held his current position since 2005, and before that was President, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, since 2002.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

    PART II          ITEM 5.  Market for the Company s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol  DIS . The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of common stock as reported in the Bloomberg Financial markets services.       
    The Company declared a $648 million dividend ($0.35 per share) on December 3,
2008 related to fiscal 2008, which was paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. The Board of Directors has not declared a dividend related to fiscal 2009 as of the date of this report.      As of October 3, 2009, the approximate number of common shareholders of record was 1,009,288.      The following table provides information about Company purchases of equity securities that are registered by the Company pursuant to
Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended October 3, 2009:       

(1)     
    408,324 shares were purchased on the open market to provide shares to participants in the Walt Disney Investment Plan and Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
These purchases were not made pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan or program.          

(2)     
    Under a share repurchase program implemented effective June 10, 1998, the Company is authorized to repurchase shares of its common stock. On
May 1, 2007, following share repurchases made through May 1, 2007, the Company s Board of Directors increased the repurchase authorization to a total of 400 million shares as of that date. The repurchase program does not have an
expiration date.            
   27   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 6.  Selected Financial Data        

(1)     
    The fiscal 2009 results include restructuring and impairment charges ($0.17 per diluted share), a non-cash gain in connection with the merger of
Lifetime and AETN ($0.08 per diluted share) and a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America ($0.04 per diluted share). Including the impact of rounding, these items collectively resulted in a net adverse
impact of $0.06 per diluted share.          

(2)     
    The fiscal 2008 results include an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America and a gain on the sale of movies.com
(together $0.01 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share), a bad debt charge for a receivable from Lehman Brothers ($0.03 per diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted
share). These items collectively had no net impact on earnings per share.          

(      3      )     
    During fiscal 2007, the Company concluded the spin-off of the ABC Radio business and thus reports ABC Radio as discontinued operations for all periods
presented (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion).          

(      4      )     
    The fiscal 2007 results include gains from the sales of E! Entertainment and Us Weekly (together $0.31 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of
certain income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share), an equity-based compensation plan modification charge ($0.01 per diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted share). These items collectively resulted in a net benefit of $0.32 per
diluted share.          

(5)     
    During fiscal 2006, the Company completed an all stock acquisition of Pixar for $7.5 billion. In addition, results include gains on sales of a Spanish
cable equity investment and Discover Magazine (together $0.02 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters ($0.02 per diluted share), a net benefit associated with the completion of the Pixar acquisition ($0.01 per
diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted share). These items collectively resulted in a net benefit of $0.04 per diluted share.          

(6)     
    The fiscal 2005 results include the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters ($0.06 per diluted share), a benefit from the restructuring of
Euro Disney s borrowings ($0.02 per diluted share), an income tax benefit from the repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act ($0.02 per diluted share), a gain on the sale of the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim ($0.01 per
diluted share), a write-off of investments in leveraged leases ($0.03 per diluted share), a write-down related to the MovieBeam venture ($0.02 per diluted share), an impairment charge for a cable television investment in Latin America ($0.01 per
diluted share) and restructuring and impairment charges related to the sale of The Disney Stores North America ($0.01 per diluted share). These items collectively resulted in a net benefit of $0.04 per diluted share.            
   28   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations       CONSOLIDATED RESULTS      (in millions, except per share data)       

(1)     
    The calculation of diluted earnings per share assumes the conversion of the Company s convertible senior notes into 45 million shares of
common stock for periods presented prior to their redemption in the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Related after-tax interest expense of $12 million for fiscal 2008 and $21 million for fiscal 2007 has been added back for the calculation of diluted
earnings per share.            
   29   

Table of Contents  

    Organization of Information       Management s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company s financial performance and condition that should be read
in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It includes the following sections:       

Consolidated Results      

Pension and Benefit Costs      

Liquidity and Capital Resources      

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements      

Accounting Policies and Estimates      

Accounting Changes      

Forward-Looking Statements          CONSOLIDATED RESULTS        2009 vs. 2008       Revenues for the year decreased 4%, or $1.7 billion, to $36.1 billion; net income decreased 25%, or $1.1 billion, to $3.3 billion; and diluted earnings per share decreased 23% to $1.76.      Net income for the current year included certain items that affected comparability, including restructuring and impairment charges ($0.17
per diluted share), a non-cash gain in connection with the merger of Lifetime and AETN ($0.08 per diluted share) and a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America ($0.04 per diluted share). Including the impact
of rounding, these items collectively resulted in a net adverse impact of $0.06 per diluted share. Fiscal 2008 included an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America and a gain on the sale of movies.com (together
$0.01 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share), a bad debt charge for a receivable from Lehman Brothers ($0.03 per diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted share). These
items collectively had no net impact on earnings per share. The current year results also include the benefit from one additional week of operations compared to fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 due to the timing of our fiscal period end. Fiscal 2010 will
not include an additional week and will be a fifty-two week fiscal year.      The decrease in diluted earnings per share reflected
lower operating results and the items discussed above, partially offset by a decrease in weighted average shares outstanding. The decrease in operating results was primarily due to lower broadcast and cable advertising revenues, a decline in
worldwide sales of DVD units, decreased guest spending at our domestic parks and resorts and Disneyland Paris, higher programming costs and production cost amortization at our cable and broadcast businesses, lower performance of our movies in
worldwide theatrical and television distribution and lower earned revenue at our licensing business. These decreases were partially offset by contractual rate increases on revenues from MVSPs (Affiliate Fees), principally at ESPN, cost mitigation
activities at Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Paris and higher international and domestic sales of ABC Studios productions.       2008
vs. 2007       Revenues for the year increased 7%, or $2.3 billion, to $37.8 billion; net income decreased 6%, or $260 million,
to $4.4 billion; and diluted earnings per share increased 1% to $2.28.      As discussed above, net income for fiscal 2008
included certain items which affected comparability. Fiscal 2007 included gains from the sales of E! Entertainment and Us Weekly (together $0.31 per diluted share), the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share),
income from the discontinued operations of the ABC Radio business ($0.01 per diluted share), an equity-based compensation plan modification charge ($0.01 per diluted share) and an impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted share). These items collectively
resulted in a net benefit of $0.33 per diluted share.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   The increase in diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2008 was the result of an increase in
segment operating results and a decrease in weighted average shares outstanding, partially offset by the absence of the gains in fiscal 2007 discussed above. Higher segment operating results reflected increases in Affiliate Fees and advertising
revenues at our cable businesses, higher guest spending and attendance at Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Paris, and strong sales of licensed products, partially offset by a decline in worldwide DVD sales.       Restructuring and Impairment Charges       The Company recorded charges totaling $492 million for the current year which included impairment charges of $279 million and restructuring costs of $213 million. The most significant of the impairment
charges were $142 million related to FCC radio licenses and $65 million related to our investment in UTV Software Communications Limited (UTV). The restructuring charges included severance and other related costs as a result of various ongoing
organizational and cost structure initiatives across our businesses. Restructuring and impairment charges for the prior year consisted of an impairment charge of $39 million related to FCC radio licenses.       Other Income (Expense)       Other income (expense) is as follows (in millions):       

(1)     
    On September 15, 2009, the Company and Hearst both contributed their 50% interest in Lifetime to AETN in exchange for an increased interest in AETN.
The transaction resulted in a $228 million non-cash gain. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of this transaction.          BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   2009 vs. 2008        

(1)     
    Segment operating income includes equity in the income of investees. In the Business Segment results discussion, equity in the income of investees is
included in segment operating income but does not affect segment revenues or costs and expenses.            
   31   

Table of Contents  

   The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating
income, and management uses aggregate segment operating income as a measure of the overall performance of the operating businesses. The Company believes that information about aggregate segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to
evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company s portfolio of businesses separate from factors other than business operations that affect net income. The following table reconciles segment operating income to income from continuing
operations before income taxes and minority interests.       

(1)     
    The fiscal 2008 and 2007 amounts consist of impairment charges for FCC radio licenses which were previously reported in Media Networks operating income
in the fiscal 2008 and 2007 financial statements. For the fiscal 2009 financial statements, these amounts have been reclassified to  Restructuring and Impairment Charges  in the consolidated statements of income to conform to the fiscal
2009 presentation.          Media Networks       The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Media Networks segment:       
     Revenues       Media Networks revenues increased 2%, or $352 million, to $16.2 billion, consisting of a 5% increase, or $514 million, at the Cable Networks offset by a 3% decrease, or $162 million, at Broadcasting.
     Increased Cable Networks revenues were primarily due to growth of $614 million from Affiliate Fees, partially offset by a
decrease of $149 million from advertising revenues. Affiliate Fees are generally derived from fees charged on a per-subscriber basis, and the increase in the current year was primarily due to contractual rate increases at ESPN and, to a lesser
extent, at the domestic Disney Channel and ABC Family, the impact of the additional week of
        
   32   

Table of Contents  

operations and subscriber growth at ESPN. Lower advertising revenue reflected a decrease at ESPN, partially offset by an increase at ABC Family. The decrease at ESPN reflected fewer units sold,
partially offset by higher rates. The increase at ABC Family reflected increased units sold and higher rates. Higher Affiliate Fees at the domestic Disney Channel were more than offset by lower DVD sales.      Certain of the Company s contracts with cable and satellite operators include annual live programming commitments. In these cases,
recognition of revenues subject to the commitments is deferred until the annual commitments are satisfied, which generally results in higher revenue recognition in the second half of the year.      Decreased Broadcasting revenues were primarily due to lower advertising sales at the ABC Television Network and at the owned television
stations, partially offset by higher international and domestic sales of ABC Studios productions driven by  Grey s Anatomy, Private Practice,  and  Criminal Minds . Lower advertising revenues at the ABC Television Network reflected
lower primetime ratings.       Costs and Expenses       Costs and expenses, which consist primarily of programming rights costs, production costs, participation costs, distribution and marketing expenses and general and administrative costs, increased 5%, or
$539 million, to $12.0 billion, consisting of a 6% increase, or $367 million, at the Cable Networks and a 3% increase, or $172 million, at Broadcasting. The increase at Cable Networks was driven by higher rights costs at ESPN due to contractual rate
increases for key contracts and costs of new and renewed contracts for college and international sports programming and increased programming costs at ABC Family due to more original series. The increase at Broadcasting was driven by higher
programming and production costs and a bad debt charge in connection with a bankruptcy of a syndication customer. Higher programming and production costs reflected more hours of original scripted primetime programming at the ABC Television Network
and higher production cost amortization related to sales of ABC Studios productions.       Sports Programming Costs       The Company has various contractual commitments for the purchase of rights for multi-year sports programming packages, including the National
Football League, college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, National Basketball Association, NASCAR, Major League Baseball, World Cup and various soccer leagues, and Golf and Tennis Associations. The costs of these
contracts have increased significantly in recent years. We enter into these contractual commitments with the expectation that, over the life of the contracts, revenue from advertising during the programming and Affiliate Fees will exceed the costs
of the programming. While contract costs may initially exceed incremental revenues and negatively impact operating income, it is our expectation that the combined value to our networks from all of these contracts will result in long-term benefits.
The actual impact of these contracts on the Company s results over the term of the contracts is dependent upon a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer
audiences.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income decreased 4%, or $216 million, to $4.8 billion for the year due to a decrease of $337 million at Broadcasting, partially offset by an increase of $121 million at the Cable
Networks. The decrease at Broadcasting was primarily due to lower advertising sales, higher programming costs and the syndication customer bad debt charge, partially offset by increased sales of ABC Studios productions. The increase at the Cable
Networks was primarily due to growth at ESPN and ABC Family.       Parks and Resorts        Revenues       Parks and Resorts
revenues decreased 7%, or $837 million, to $10.7 billion due to decreases of $531 million at our domestic operations and $306 million at our international operations.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents attendance, per capita theme park guest spending, and hotel
statistics for our domestic properties:       

(1)     
    Per room guest spending consists of the average daily hotel room rate as well as guest spending on food, beverages and merchandise at the hotels. Hotel
statistics include rentals of Disney Vacation Club units.         At our domestic operations, decreased revenue
reflected a decrease in guest spending, principally at our parks and resorts, and lower gains on securitized sales of ownership interests at Disney Vacation Club. Decreased guest spending at the domestic parks and resorts reflected lower average
ticket prices, lower average daily hotel room rates and decreased merchandise spending. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in revenue recognition at Disney Vacation Club in connection with the completion of a vacation club
property.      At our international operations, lower revenues resulted from a decrease at Disneyland Paris due to the unfavorable
impact of foreign currency translation as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and decreased guest spending. Decreased guest spending was due to lower average ticket prices, decreased merchandise spending and lower
average daily hotel room rates.       Costs and Expenses       Costs and expenses, which consist primarily of labor, depreciation, costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold, marketing and sales expense, repairs and maintenance and entertainment, decreased 4%, or
$358 million. The decrease in costs and expenses was driven by decreases at Disneyland Paris and the Walt Disney World Resort, partially offset by an increase at Disney Vacation Club. The decrease at Disneyland Paris was due to the favorable impact
of foreign currency translation as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and savings from cost mitigation activities partially offset by labor and other cost inflation. The decrease at the Walt Disney World Resort was
driven by savings from cost mitigation activities, partially offset by labor and other cost inflation. The increase at Disney Vacation Club was driven by higher per unit cost of sales and expense recognition in connection with the completion of a
vacation club property.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income decreased 25%, or $479 million, to $1.4 billion, due to decreases at our domestic operations and at Disneyland Paris.       Studio Entertainment        Revenues  
     Revenues decreased 16%, or $1.2 billion, to $6.1 billion primarily due to decreases of $978 million in worldwide home
entertainment, $129 million in music distribution and $106 million in worldwide television distribution.      The decrease in
worldwide home entertainment revenues was primarily due to lower unit sales and net effective pricing, reflecting the overall decline in the DVD market and the strength of  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World s End  in the prior year.
Significant other titles included  WALL-E  and  The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian  in the current year while the prior year included  Ratatouille ,  National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets  and  Enchanted .   
     
   34   

Table of Contents  

   Lower revenues in music distribution reflected the strong performance of the  Hannah
Montana  concert tour and  Miley Cyrus  and  Jonas Brothers  CD titles in the prior year. The decrease in worldwide television distribution was driven by fewer significant titles in the current year.       Cost and Expenses       Costs
and expenses, which consist primarily of production cost amortization, distribution and marketing expenses, product costs and participation costs decreased 5%, or $305 million, primarily due to decreases in worldwide home entertainment and music
distribution, partially offset by an increase in worldwide theatrical distribution.      The decrease in costs at worldwide home
entertainment was primarily due to lower distribution costs and production cost amortization resulting from a decline in DVD unit sales. The decrease in music distribution reflected the absence of costs associated with the  Hannah Montana 
concert tour in the prior year. Increased costs and expenses in worldwide theatrical distribution reflected higher marketing costs for current year releases and higher film cost write-downs.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income decreased 84%, or $911 million, to $175 million primarily due to decreases at worldwide home entertainment, worldwide theatrical distribution and worldwide television distribution.       Consumer Products        Revenues
      Revenues were essentially flat at $2.4 billion as an increase of $131 million at our retail business was offset by
decreases of $86 million at Merchandise Licensing and $44 million at Publishing. The increase at our retail business was primarily due to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America during the third quarter of fiscal 2008 (see discussion of
the Disney Stores acquisition below), partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation at The Disney Stores Europe as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and Euro. The decrease at
Merchandise Licensing was primarily due to lower earned royalty revenue across multiple product categories due to the difficult retail environment as well as the strength of  Hannah Montana  and  High School Musical  properties in the
prior year. The decrease at Publishing reflected lower magazine sales driven by the closure of  Wondertime  magazine.       Costs and
Expenses       Costs and expenses, which consist primarily of cost of sales, salaries and benefits, marketing and occupancy,
increased 11%, or $181 million, to $1.8 billion primarily due to an increase at our retail business, partially offset by a decrease at Publishing. The increase at retail was due to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America in the third
quarter of fiscal 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign currency translation at The Disney Stores Europe as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and Euro. The decrease at Publishing reflected
lower cost of sales and other operating costs.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income decreased 22%, or $169 million, to $609 million due to lower results at Merchandise Licensing and at our retail
business, which reflected the adverse impact of a full year of company-owned operations at the Disney Stores North America in fiscal 2009 whereas the prior year included five months of company-owned operations and seven months of licensed
operations.       Disney Stores Acquisition       On April 30, 2008, the Company acquired certain assets of the Disney Stores North America for approximately $64 million of cash from, and terminated its long-term licensing arrangement for the Disney
Stores with, The Children s Place, the former licensee. The Company acquired the inventory, leasehold improvements, and certain fixed assets of, and assumed the leases on, 229 stores. The Company conducted the wind-down and closure of an
additional 88 stores but did not assume the leases on these stores.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

    Interactive Media        Revenues       Interactive Media revenues decreased 1%, or $7 million, to $712
million primarily due to a decrease of $58 million at Disney Interactive Studios, driven by lower sales of self-published video games and decreased licensing revenues, partially offset by increases of $39 million at our mobile phone service business
in Japan, which was launched in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, and $11 million at Disney Online driven by increased subscription revenues at Club Penguin.      At Disney Interactive Studios, lower self-published video games sales reflected decreased net effective pricing and unit sales. Significant current year titles included  High School Musical 3, Sing It
 and  Bolt  as compared to the prior year, which included  High School Musical, Turok ,  Hannah Montana 2  and  Pure.  The decrease in licensing revenues was primarily due to the performance of  WALL-E, Cars  and
 Ratatouille  in the prior year.       Costs and Expenses       Costs and expenses, which consist primarily of video game and internet product development costs, cost of sales, distribution and marketing expenses, general and administrative costs, and technology
infrastructure costs, increased 4%, or $35 million, to $1.0 billion.      The increase was primarily due to higher unit cost of
sales and distribution costs, which included the costs for bundled accessories and music royalties for certain current-year titles at Disney Interactive Studios, higher expenses at our mobile phone service business in Japan driven by a full year of
operations, partially offset by a decrease at Disney Online driven by lower marketing costs.       Segment Operating Loss       Segment operating loss increased 14%, or $37 million, to $295 million driven by lower results at Disney Interactive Studio partially offset
by improved results at Disney Online.       NON-SEGMENT ITEMS   2009 vs. 2008        Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses       Corporate and unallocated shared expense decreased 13%, from $460 million to $398 million, driven by savings from cost mitigation activities and an increase in allocation of costs to the business
segments.       Net Interest Expense       Net interest expense is detailed below:       
    The decrease in interest expense and interest and investment income for the year was
driven by lower effective interest rates.       Effective Income Tax Rate       The effective tax rate was comparable to the prior year at 36.2% as the favorable impact of legislative changes in the current year was
offset by the favorable resolution of certain income tax matters in the prior year.       Minority Interests       Minority interest expense was flat at $302 million for the current year as the impact of lower financing costs at Hong Kong Disneyland and
improved operating results at ESPN were offset by lower performance at Disneyland Paris. The minority interest is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

    PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL BENEFIT COSTS       Pension and postretirement medical benefit plan costs affect results in all five segments, with approximately one-half of these costs being
borne by the Parks and Resorts segment. The Company recognized pension and postretirement medical benefit plan expenses of $214 million, $255 million and $278 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in fiscal 2009
was primarily due to an increase in the discount rate used to measure the present value of plan obligations. The assumed discount rate reflects market rates for high-quality corporate bonds currently available. The Company s discount rate was
determined by considering the average of pension yield curves constructed from a large population of high quality corporate bonds. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curves.      We expect pension and postretirement medical costs to increase by approximately $268 million to $482 million in fiscal 2010 primarily due to
a decrease in the discount rate used to measure the present value of plan obligations and asset returns that were below the assumed return. The decrease in the discount rate and the asset return shortfall versus our expected return in fiscal 2009
also resulted in an increase in the underfunded status of our plans and an increase in unrecognized pension and postretirement medical expense which totals $2.8 billion ($1.8 billion after-tax) as of October 3, 2009. If our investment performance
does not improve relative to our long-term assumption and/or discount rates do not increase, we expect that pension and post-retirement medical costs will continue to be considerably higher than fiscal 2009 for the next few years as a result of
amortizing these unrecognized expenses. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the impacts of our pension and postretirement medical plans on our financial statements. During fiscal 2009, the Company made
contributions to its pension and postretirement medical plans totaling $473 million, which included discretionary contributions above the minimum requirements for pension plans. The Company expects pension and post-retirement medical plan
contributions in fiscal 2010 to range from $350 million to $450 million, which is expected to include discretionary contributions above the minimum requirements. Final minimum funding requirements for fiscal 2010 will be determined based on our
January 1, 2010 funding actuarial valuation which will be available late fiscal 2010. See  Item 1A   Risk Factors  for the impact of factors affecting pension and postretirement medical costs.       BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS   2008 vs. 2007        Media Networks        Revenues       Media Networks revenues increased 6%, or $944 million, to $15.9 billion, consisting of a 10% increase, or $874 million, at the Cable Networks and a 1% increase, or $70 million, at Broadcasting.
     Increased Cable Networks revenues were primarily due to growth of $654 million from Affiliate Fees and $206 million from
advertising revenues. Increased Affilitate Fees in fiscal 2008 were driven by increases at ESPN and, to a lesser extent, the worldwide Disney Channels and ABC Family. The increase at ESPN was primarily due to contractual rate increases and
subscriber growth, the increase at the worldwide Disney Channels was driven by subscriber growth and the increase at ABC Family was due to contractual rate increases. Higher advertising revenues at ESPN and ABC Family reflected improved rates and
ratings. Higher DVD sales, primarily  High School Musical , were partially offset by the favorable settlement of a claim with an international distributor in fiscal 2007.      Increased Broadcasting revenues reflected higher international sales of ABC Studios productions partially offset by decreased advertising
revenues, largely at the owned television stations. Increased international sales of ABC Studios productions were driven by  Grey s Anatomy, Private Practice  and  Reaper . Fiscal 2008 revenues at the ABC Television Network were
comparable to fiscal 2007 as the impact of lower ratings was offset by higher advertising rates and digital media revenues.       Costs and
Expenses       Costs and expenses increased 6%, or $609 million, to $11.5 billion, consisting of an 7% increase, or $448
million, at the Cable Networks and a 3% increase, or $161 million, at Broadcasting. The increase at Cable Networks was primarily due to increased costs at ESPN and to a lesser extent, the worldwide Disney Channels, driven by higher programming,
administrative and marketing costs. These increases were partially offset by the absence of Major League Baseball programming costs at ABC Family. The increase at Broadcasting was primarily due to higher production cost amortization related to
international sales of our programs.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

    Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income increased 10%, or $447 million, to $5.0 billion due to an increase of $536 million at the Cable Networks partially
offset by a decrease of $89 million at Broadcasting. The increase at the Cable Networks was primarily due to growth at ESPN, higher income at our cable equity investments, and increases at ABC Family and the domestic Disney Channels, partially
offset by a favorable settlement of a claim with an international distributor in fiscal 2007. The decrease at Broadcasting was due to lower advertising revenues at the owned television stations. The increase in income at our cable equity investments
was primarily due to higher affiliate and advertising revenue at Lifetime and a gain on the sale of a European cable channel.       ABC Radio
Transaction       On June 12, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its wholly-owned subsidiary, ABC Radio Holdings,
Inc., which was then merged into a subsidiary of Citadel Broadcasting Corporation (Citadel). Prior to the spin-off, the Company consolidated its ABC Radio business, consisting of 22 large-market radio stations and the ABC Radio Network businesses,
under ABC Radio Holdings, Inc. The transaction did not include the Company s ESPN Radio or Radio Disney network and station businesses. The results of the ABC Radio business have been reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented. The Company now includes the ESPN Radio and Radio Disney network and stations businesses with Cable Networks in the Media Networks segment. Prior to the transaction, the Company s radio businesses were included with Broadcasting in
the Media Networks segment. Previously reported results have been reclassified to reflect this presentation.      Summarized
financial information for the discontinued operations is as follows (in millions, except per share data):       

2007   

Revenues   
      
    $  
          372       

Income from discontinued operations before income taxes   

45       

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax   

13       

Diluted EPS, discontinued operations   

0.01       
     Parks and Resorts        Revenues       Parks and Resorts revenues increased 8%, or $878 million, to
$11.5 billion due to increases of $439 million at our domestic operations and $439 million at our international operations.      The following table presents attendance, per capita theme park guest spending, and hotel statistics for our domestic properties:       

(1)     
    Per room guest spending consists of the average daily hotel room rate as well as guest spending on food, beverages and merchandise at the hotels. Hotel
statistics include rentals of Disney Vacation Club units.            
   38   

Table of Contents  

   At our domestic operations, growth in revenues was primarily due to increases at the Walt
Disney World Resort and Disney Vacation Club. Revenue growth at Walt Disney World Resort was primarily due to increased guest spending and theme park attendance. Increased guest spending was due to higher average ticket prices, increased food and
beverage sales and higher average daily hotel room rates. At Disney Vacation Club, revenue growth reflected higher vacation club ownership sales, including extensions of the term of ownership on existing vacation club properties.      At our international operations, revenue growth resulted from an increase at Disneyland Paris due to the favorable impact of foreign
currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro and increased guest spending and theme park attendance. Increased guest spending was due to higher average daily hotel room rates and average ticket prices.
      Costs and Expenses       Costs and expenses increased 8%, or $691 million, primarily due to increases at Disneyland Paris, Walt Disney World Resort and Disney Vacation Club. The increase at Disneyland Paris was due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency
translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, labor cost inflation and higher volume-related costs. The increase at the Walt Disney World Resort was due to labor and other cost inflation, new guest offerings and
volume-related costs. The increase at Disney Vacation Club was driven by higher per unit cost of sales.       Segment Operating Income
      Segment operating income increased 11%, or $187 million, to $1.9 billion, primarily due to increases at Disneyland Paris
and the Walt Disney World Resort.       Studio Entertainment        Revenues       Revenues decreased 2%, or $143 million, to $7.3 billion primarily
due to decreases of $117 million in worldwide television distribution, $112 million in domestic theatrical distribution, and $66 million in domestic home entertainment, partially offset by an increase of $147 million in international home
entertainment.      The decrease in worldwide television distribution revenues was driven by the absence of the multi-season sale
of  Home Improvement  which occurred in fiscal 2007. Lower revenues in domestic theatrical distribution reflected the strong performance of fiscal 2007 titles, including  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World s End, Ratatouille,  and
 Wild Hogs,  compared to the titles in fiscal 2008, which included  National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets  and  WALL-E . Lower revenues in domestic home entertainment were primarily due to a decline in unit sales reflecting the
performance of  Pirates of the Caribbean: At World s End  and  Ratatouille  in fiscal 2008 compared to  Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man s Chest  and  Cars  in fiscal 2007.      Revenue growth in international home entertainment was primarily due to a higher unit sales mix of television series DVD sets, which have
higher average unit sales prices.       Cost and Expenses       Costs and expenses for fiscal 2008 were comparable to fiscal 2007 as decreases in worldwide television distribution and domestic theatrical distribution were largely offset by an increase in international
home entertainment.      Lower costs and expenses in worldwide television distribution were primarily due to a decrease in
amortization and participation costs driven by the absence of the  Home Improvement  sale. The decrease in domestic theatrical distribution was primarily due to lower amortization expense reflecting decreased revenues for fiscal 2008 releases
and lower film cost write-downs. The increase in international home entertainment was primarily due to higher distribution costs driven by extensive marketing campaigns in fiscal 2008.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income decreased 9%, or $109
million, to $1.1 billion primarily due to lower revenues in domestic home entertainment.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

    Consumer Products        Revenues       Revenues increased 21%, or $425 million, to $2.4 billion, due to
increases of $196 million at our retail business and $181 million at Merchandise Licensing.      The increase at our retail
business was due to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America during the third quarter of fiscal 2008. The revenue growth at Merchandise Licensing was primarily due to higher earned royalties across multiple product categories, led by
 Hannah Montana  and  High School Musical  merchandise, partially offset by lower recognition of minimum guarantee revenues.       Costs and Expenses       Costs and expenses increased 26%, or $336 million, to $1.6 billion primarily due to the
acquisition of the Disney Stores North America during the third quarter of fiscal 2008, and higher salary and benefits expenses and increased participation costs at Merchandise Licensing.       Segment Operating Income       Segment operating income increased 13%, or $89 million, to $778 million due to growth at Merchandise Licensing, partially offset by a decrease at our retail business.       Interactive Media        Revenues       Interactive Media revenues increased 47%, or $229 million, to $719 million primarily due to increases of $160 million at Disney Interactive
Studios and $71 million at Disney Online.      The increase at Disney Interactive Studios was primarily due to the performance of
new  High School Musical ,  Hannah Montana  and  Turok  self-published video games in fiscal 2008 compared to  Pirates of the Caribbean ,  Spectrobes  and  Meet the Robinsons  games in fiscal 2007. The increase at
Disney Online reflected higher virtual world subscription revenue due to a full year of Club Penguin, which was acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.       Costs and Expenses       Costs and expenses increased 25%, or $193 million, to
$974 million driven by increases at Disney Interactive Studios and Disney Online, partially offset by lower costs related to the domestic mobile phone service, which was shut down in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The increase at Disney
Interactive Studios reflected higher product, distribution and marketing costs associated with volume growth and increased investment in video game development. At Disney Online the increase was driven by higher development and marketing costs
related to the Disney.com website and virtual worlds, including the impact of a full year of Club Penguin, and the Family.com website.       Segment Operating Loss       Segment operating loss decreased 11%, or $33 million, to $258 million driven by reduced
costs due to the shutdown of the domestic mobile phone service in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, partially offset by higher marketing costs at Disney Online.       NON-SEGMENT ITEMS   2008 vs. 2007        Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses  
     Corporate and unallocated shared expense decreased 7%, from $497 million to $460 million, primarily due to an increase in
allocation of costs to the business segments, partially offset by higher investments in strategic initiatives.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

    Net Interest Expense       Net interest expense is detailed below:       
    Net interest expense decreased 12% for the year driven by lower effective interest
rates and a gain on the sale of an investment, partially offset by higher average debt balances.       Effective Income Tax Rate    
  The effective income tax rate decreased 1.1 percentage points from 37.2% in 2007 to 36.1% in 2008. The lower effective tax rate for the
year was primarily due to increased benefits from Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 199 related to qualified domestic production activities.       Minority Interests       Minority interest expense increased from $177 million to $302 million reflecting the
impact of improved results at Disneyland Paris, ESPN and Hong Kong Disneyland. The minority interest is determined on income after royalties, financing costs and income taxes.       LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES       The change in cash and cash equivalents
is as follows:       
     Operating Activities       Cash provided by continuing operating activities for fiscal 2009 decreased 7% or $382 million to $5.1 billion as compared to fiscal 2008.
The decrease was driven by lower segment operating results and higher contributions to our pension plans, partially offset by lower income tax payments and a decreased net investment in working capital.      Cash provided by continuing operating activities for fiscal 2008 increased 1% or $48 million to $5.4 billion as compared to fiscal 2007. The
increase was driven by higher segment operating results and lower pension contributions, partially offset by increased film and television spending and higher net investment in working capital including higher spending on Disney Vacation Club
properties.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

   Depreciation expense from continuing operations is as follows:       
    The Company s Studio Entertainment and Media Networks segments incur costs to
acquire and produce television and feature film programming. Film and television production costs include all internally produced content such as live action and animated feature films, animated direct-to-video programming, television series,
television specials, theatrical stage plays or other similar product. Programming costs include film or television product licensed for a specific period from third parties for airing on the Company s broadcast, cable networks, and television
stations. Programming assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. Accordingly, we analyze our programming assets net of the related liability.      The Company s film and television production and programming activity for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as follows:   

42   

Table of Contents  

    Investing Activities       Investing activities from continuing operations consist principally of investments in parks, resorts, and other property and acquisition and divestiture activity. The Company s investments in parks,
resorts and other property from continuing operations for the last three years are as follows:       
    Capital expenditures for the Parks and Resorts segment are principally for theme park
and resort expansion, new rides and attractions, cruise ships, recurring capital and capital improvements. The increase in capital expenditures at domestic parks and resorts in fiscal 2009 reflected spending on Disney s California Adventure
expansion and construction progress payments on two new cruise ships. The decrease in capital expenditures at international parks and resorts in fiscal 2008 reflected lower expenditures at Disneyland Paris as a result of completion of projects
related to a multi-year investment program established with the 2005 Financial Restructuring (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).      Capital expenditures at Media Networks primarily reflect investments in facilities and equipment for expanding and upgrading broadcast centers, production facilities, and television station facilities.
The increase in fiscal 2008 was driven by the construction of new production and television station facilities.       Other Investing Activities
      During fiscal 2009, acquisitions totaled $517 million and included the purchase of additional interests in Jetix Europe
N.V. and UTV (See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by proceeds totaling $185 million from the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America.      During fiscal 2008, acquisitions totaled $660 million which included an additional interest in UTV.      During fiscal 2007, the Company received $1.5 billion in proceeds from the sales of our interests in E! Entertainment Television and Us
Weekly. Acquisitions totaled $608 million driven by Club Penguin Entertainment, Inc. and NASN Limited (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).       Financing Activities       Cash used in continuing financing activities
decreased by $1.4 billion to $2.6 billion in fiscal 2009 and consisted of repayments of borrowings, the payment of dividends and repurchases of common stock. The decrease from fiscal 2008 was due to lower share repurchases, partially offset by
higher repayments of borrowings and decreased proceeds from stock option exercises. Cash used in continuing financing activities during fiscal 2008 and 2007 of $4.0 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, consisted of share repurchases and
dividends, partially offset by borrowings and the proceeds from stock option exercises. Borrowings during fiscal 2007 included $1.35 billion of pre-spin-off borrowings of ABC Radio Holdings, Inc. that were removed from the Company s balance
sheet in connection with the spin-off.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

   During the year ended October 3, 2009, the Company s borrowing activity was as
follows:       

(1)     
    The other activity is primarily the impact of foreign currency translation as a result of the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen.

(2)     
    The other activity is primarily market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges.          

(3)     
    The other activity is due to the conversion of the HKSAR s loan to equity pursuant to the capital realignment and expansion plan (See Note 7 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements).         The Company s bank facilities are as follows:       
    These bank facilities allow for borrowings at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, which
depends on the Company s public debt rating and can range from 0.175% to 0.75%. As of October 3, 2009, the Company had not borrowed under these bank facilities. The Company also has the ability to issue up to $800 million of letters of
credit under the facility expiring in 2011, which if utilized, reduces available borrowing under this facility. As of October 3, 2009, $326 million of letters of credit had been issued of which $237 million was issued under this facility.
     The Company may use commercial paper borrowings up to the amount of its unused bank facilities (see above), in conjunction
with term debt issuance and operating cash flow, to retire or refinance other borrowings before or as they come due.      As of
the filing date of this report, the Board of Directors had not yet declared a dividend related to fiscal 2009. The Company paid a $648 million dividend ($0.35 per share) during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 related to fiscal 2008. The Company
paid a $664 million dividend ($0.35 per share) during the second quarter of fiscal 2008 related to fiscal 2007; and paid a $637 million dividend ($0.31 per share) during the second quarter of fiscal 2007 related to fiscal 2006.      During fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Disney common stock for $138 million. During fiscal 2008, the Company
repurchased 139 million shares of Disney common stock for $4.5 billion. During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 202 million shares of Disney common stock for $6.9 billion. As of October 3, 2009, the Company had remaining
authorization in place to repurchase 179 million additional shares. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

   We believe that the Company s financial condition is strong and that its cash balances,
other liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets and borrowing capacity, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and future capital expenditures related to the expansion
of existing businesses and development of new projects. However, the Company s operating cash flow and access to the capital markets can be impacted by macroeconomic factors outside of its control. See  Item 1A   Risk Factors .
In addition to macroeconomic factors, the Company s borrowing costs can be impacted by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company s performance as measured
by certain credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. As of December 2, 2009, Moody s Investors Service s long and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1, respectively, with stable outlook;
Standard   Poor s long and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A and A-1, respectively, with CreditWatch negative; and Fitch s long and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A and F-1, respectively, with stable
outlook. The Company s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage, which the Company met on October 3, 2009, by a significant margin. The Company s bank facilities also specifically exclude
certain entities, such as Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, from any representations, covenants or events of default.      Euro Disney has covenants under its debt agreements that limit its investment and financing activities and require it to meet certain annual financial performance covenants. Subject to final third-party review as provided in its debt
agreements, Euro Disney believes that it has complied with its financial performance covenants for fiscal year 2009.       CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS, COMMITMENTS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS       The Company has various contractual obligations which are
recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements but are required to be
disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. For example, the Company is contractually committed to acquire broadcast programming and make certain minimum lease payments for the use of property under operating lease agreements.
     The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commitments on an undiscounted basis at
October 3, 2009 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on outstanding borrowings. Additional details regarding these
obligations are provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, as referenced in the table:       

(1)     
    Amounts exclude market value adjustments totaling $291 million, which are recorded in the balance sheet. Amounts include interest payments based on
contractual terms for fixed rate debt, and on current interest rates for variable rate debt.            
   45   

Table of Contents  

(2)     
    Other commitments primarily comprise contractual commitments for the construction of two new cruise ships, creative talent and employment agreements
and unrecognized tax benefits. Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports personnel, television and radio personalities and executives.          

(3)     
    Contractual commitments include the following:          
    The Company also has obligations with respect to its pension and postretirement
medical benefit plans. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Contingent Commitments and Contractual Guarantees
      The Company also has certain contractual arrangements that would require the Company to make payments or provide funding
if certain circumstances occur. The Company does not currently expect that these arrangements will result in any significant amounts being paid by the Company.   See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the
Company s contingent commitments and contractual guarantees.       Legal and Tax Matters       As disclosed in Notes 10 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain legal and tax matters.
      ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES       We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of operations, require significant judgments and estimates on the part of
management. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Film and Television Revenues and Costs       We expense film and television
production, participation and residual costs over the applicable product life cycle based upon the ratio of the current period s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues) for each production. If our estimate of
Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of film and television costs may be accelerated. Conversely, if estimates of Ultimate Revenues increase, film and television cost amortization may be slowed. For film productions, Ultimate Revenues include
revenues from all sources that will be earned within ten years from the date of the initial theatrical release. For television series, we include revenues that will be earned within ten years from delivery of the first episode, or if still in
production, five years from delivery of the most recent episode, if later.      With respect to films intended for theatrical
release, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues (and therefore affecting future film cost amortization and/or impairment) is domestic theatrical performance. Revenues derived from other markets subsequent to the
domestic theatrical release (e.g. the home video or international theatrical markets) have historically been highly correlated with domestic theatrical performance. Domestic theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and
demand for a particular film, the popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. Upon a film s release and determination of domestic theatrical performance, the Company s estimates of revenues from
succeeding windows and markets are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. The most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues for released films is the extent of home entertainment sales
achieved. Home entertainment sales vary based on the number and quality of competing home video products, as well as the manner in which retailers market and price our products.      With respect to television series or other television productions intended for broadcast, the most sensitive factors affecting estimates of
Ultimate Revenues is the program s rating and the strength of the advertising market. Program ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, directly affect the Company s ability to generate advertising
        
   46   

Table of Contents  

revenues during the airing of the program. In addition, television series with greater market acceptance are more likely to generate incremental revenues through the eventual sale of the program
rights in the syndication, international and home entertainment markets. Alternatively, poor ratings may result in a television series cancellation, which would require the immediate write-off of any unamortized production costs. A significant
decline in the advertising market would also negatively impact our estimates.      We expense the cost of television broadcast
rights for acquired movies, series and other programs based on the number of times the program is expected to be aired or on a straight-line basis over the useful life, as appropriate. Amortization of those television programming assets being
amortized on a number of airings basis may be accelerated if we reduce the estimated future airings and slowed if we increase the estimated future airings. The number of future airings of a particular program is impacted primarily by the
program s ratings in previous airings, expected advertising rates and availability and quality of alternative programming. Accordingly, planned usage is reviewed periodically and revised if necessary. Rights costs for multi-year sports
programming arrangements are amortized based upon the ratio of the current period s revenues to Ultimate Revenues (the Projected Revenue Method) or on a straight-line basis over the contract period, as appropriate. Revenues include both
advertising revenues and an allocation of Affiliate Fees. If the annual contractual payments related to each season over the term of a multi-year sports programming arrangement approximate each season s rights cost based on the Projected
Revenue Method, we expense the related annual payments during the applicable season. If Ultimate Revenues change significantly from projections, amortization of the rights costs may be accelerated or slowed.      Costs of film and television productions are subject to regular recoverability assessments which compare the estimated fair values with the
unamortized costs. The net realizable value of the television broadcast program licenses and rights are reviewed using a daypart methodology. A daypart is defined as an aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or programs of
a similar type. The Company s dayparts are early morning, daytime, late night, primetime, news, children, and sports (includes network and cable). The net realizable values of other cable programming assets are reviewed on an aggregated basis
for each cable channel. Individual programs are written-off when there are no plans to air or sublicense the program. Estimated values are based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual demand or market conditions are
less favorable than our projections, film, television and programming cost write-downs may be required.       Revenue Recognition
      The Company has revenue recognition policies for its various operating segments that are appropriate for the circumstances
of each business. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of these revenue recognition policies.      We
reduce home entertainment and software product revenues for estimated future returns of merchandise and for customer programs and sales incentives. These estimates are based upon historical return experience, current economic trends and projections
of customer demand for and acceptance of our products. If we underestimate the level of returns and concessions in a particular period, we may record less revenue in later periods when returns exceed the estimated amount. Conversely, if we
overestimate the level of returns and concessions for a period, we may have additional revenue in later periods when returns and concessions are less than estimated.      Revenues from advance theme park ticket sales are recognized when the tickets are used. For non-expiring, multi-day tickets, we recognize revenue over a three-year time period based on estimated usage,
which is derived from historical usage patterns. If actual usage is different than our estimated usage, revenues may not be recognized in the periods the related services are rendered. In addition, a change in usage patterns would impact the timing
of revenue recognition.       Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions       The Company s pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using a number of actuarial
assumptions. Two critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement which we evaluate annually. Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and
employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase.      The discount
rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension
        
   47   

Table of Contents  

expense. The guideline for setting this rate is a high-quality long-term corporate bond rate. We decreased our discount rate to 5.75% at the end of fiscal 2009 from 7.80% at the beginning of
fiscal 2009 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our October 3, 2009 measurement date. This decrease in the discount rate will affect net periodic pension and postretirement medical expense in fiscal 2010. The assumed discount rate
reflects market rates for high-quality corporate bonds currently available. The Company s discount rate was determined by considering the average of pension yield curves constructed of a large population of high quality corporate bonds. The
resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curves. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would have increased total net periodic pension and postretirement medical expense for
fiscal 2010 by $169 million and would increase the projected benefit obligation at October 3, 2009 by $1.3 billion, respectively. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would have decreased these amounts by $149 million
and $1.1 billion, respectively.      To determine the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets, we consider the
current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. A lower expected rate of return on pension plan assets will increase pension expense. Our long-term expected return on plan assets was 7.75%
and 7.50% for the 2009 and 2008 actuarial valuations, respectively. The increase in the rate used for the year end 2009 actuarial valuation was due to changes in the ranges of expected returns on certain plan asset classes. A one percentage point
change in the long-term return on pension plan asset assumption would impact fiscal 2010 annual pension and postretirement medical expense by approximately $57 million.      See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our pension and postretirement medical plans.       Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Investments       The Company is required to
test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if current events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units,
which are generally an operating segment or one reporting level below the operating segment. The Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of its goodwill.      To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flow) corroborated by market
multiples when available and as appropriate. We apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. The discounted cash flow analyses are sensitive to our estimates of future revenue growth
and margins for these businesses. We include in the projected cash flows an estimate of the revenue we believe the reporting unit would receive if the intellectual property developed by the reporting unit that is being used by other reporting units
was licensed to an unrelated third party at its fair market value. These amounts are not necessarily the same as those included in segment operating results. We believe our estimates of fair value are consistent with how a marketplace participant
would value our reporting units.      In light of recent adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company s
long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. If we had established different reporting units or utilized different valuation methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we
could be required to record impairment charges. Because of the way the accounting rules work, a relatively modest reduction in our estimate of the fair value of our Broadcasting reporting unit could result in a significant goodwill impairment
charge.      The Company is required to compare the fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying
amounts. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised
values, as appropriate.      The Company has cost and equity investments. The fair value of these investments is dependent on the
performance of the investee companies, as well as volatility inherent in the external markets for these investments. In assessing the potential impairment for these investments, we consider these factors, as well as the forecasted financial
performance of our investees and market values, where available. If these forecasts are not met or market values indicate an other-than-temporary decline in value, impairment charges may be required.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

   During the current year, the Company tested its goodwill and other intangible assets,
investments and long-lived assets for impairment and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $279 million. The impairment charges include $142 million for FCC radio licenses and $65 million for our investment in UTV. During fiscal years 2008 and
2007, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $39 million and $26 million, respectively, related to FCC radio licenses. The FCC radio license impairment charges reflected overall market declines in certain radio markets in which we
operate. These impairment charges, which were estimated using a discounted cash flow model, were recorded in  Restructuring and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.       Allowance for doubtful accounts       We evaluate our allowance for doubtful accounts and estimate collectibility of accounts receivable based on our analysis of historical bad debt experience in conjunction with our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies
with which we do business. In light of the recent turmoil in the domestic and global economy that has affected many companies, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectibility of our receivables from these companies have become subject
to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts is too low, costs and expenses may increase in future periods, and if it is too high, cost and expenses may decrease in future periods.       Contingencies and Litigation       We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable losses for the resolution of these claims. These estimates have been developed in consultation with outside
counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially
affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on litigation exposure.       Income Tax Audits       As a
matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. Our determinations regarding the recognition of income tax benefits are made
in consultation with outside tax and legal counsel where appropriate and are based upon the technical merits of our tax positions in consideration of applicable tax statutes and related interpretations and precedents and upon the expected outcome of
proceedings (or negotiations) with taxing and legal authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our financial statements based on a number of factors, including the Company s decision to
settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing authorities.       Stock Option Compensation Expense       Each year during the second quarter, the
Company awards stock options and restricted stock units to a broad-based group of management and creative personnel (the Annual Grant). The Company uses a binomial valuation model which takes into account variables such as volatility, dividend
yield, and the risk-free interest rate. The binomial valuation model also considers the expected exercise multiple (the multiple of exercise price to grant price at which exercises are expected to occur on average) and the termination rate (the
probability of a vested option being cancelled due to the termination of the option holder) in computing the value of the option. Accordingly, the Company believes that the binomial valuation model should produce a fair value that is representative
of the value of an employee option.      In fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007, the weighted average assumptions used in the
options-pricing models were as follows:       
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

   Although the initial fair value of stock options is not adjusted after the grant date,
changes in the Company s assumptions may change the value of, and therefore the expense related to, future stock option grants. The assumptions that cause the greatest variation in fair value in the binomial valuation model are the expected
volatility and expected exercise multiple. Increases or decreases in either the expected volatility or expected exercise multiple will cause the binomial option value to increase or decrease, respectively.      The volatility assumption considers both historical and implied volatility and may be impacted by the Company s performance as well as
changes in economic and market conditions. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information. If the expected volatility of 47% used by the Company during 2009 was increased or decreased by five percentage points
(i.e. to 52% or to 42%), the weighted average grant date fair value of our 2009 stock option grants would have increased by 9% or decreased by 7%, respectively.      The expected exercise multiple may be influenced by the Company s future stock performance, stock price volatility, and employee turnover rates. If the exercise multiple assumption of 1.39 used by
the Company during 2009 were increased to 1.6 or decreased to 1.2, the weighted average binomial value of our 2009 stock option grants would have increased by 7% or decreased by 8%, respectively.       ACCOUNTING CHANGES        Revenue
Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables       In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance
on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year, although early adoption is permitted. The guidance revises the criteria for separating, measuring, and allocating arrangement consideration to each
deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The guidance requires companies to allocate revenue using the relative selling price of each deliverable, which must be estimated if there is no history of selling the deliverable on a stand-alone basis
nor third-party evidence of selling price. The Company is assessing the potential effect of this guidance on its financial statements.       Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets       In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on transfers and
servicing of financial assets to eliminate the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity, change the requirements for off balance sheet accounting for financial assets including limiting the circumstances where off balance sheet treatment for a
portion of a financial asset is allowable, and require additional disclosures. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its
financial statements.       Variable Interest Entities       In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to revise the approach to determine when a variable interest entity (VIE) should be consolidated. The new consolidation model for VIEs considers whether the Company
has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and shares in the significant risks and rewards of the entity. The guidance on VIE s requires companies to continually reassess VIEs to
determine if consolidation is appropriate and provide additional disclosures. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The Company is assessing the potential effect of this guidance on its financial statements.   
   Collaborative Arrangements       In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance that defines collaborative arrangements and establishes accounting and reporting requirements for such arrangements. A collaborative arrangement is a contractual arrangement that involves a joint
operating activity, for example an agreement to co-produce and distribute a motion picture with another studio. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2010 fiscal year. The Company does not expect that the adoption of the guidance on
collaborative arrangements will have a material impact on its financial statements.       Business Combinations       In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance that establishes principles and requirements for determining how a company recognizes and measures
the fair value of certain assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, including noncontrolling interests, contingent consideration, and certain acquired contingencies. The guidance on business combinations also requires
acquisition-related transaction expenses and restructuring costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized. This guidance will be applicable prospectively to business combinations beginning in the Company s 2010 fiscal year.   
     
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Noncontrolling Interest (Minority Interests)       In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance on the accounting and reporting for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary.
Upon adoption of this guidance, the Company will be required to report its noncontrolling interests as a separate component of shareholders  equity. The Company will also be required to present net income attributable to the noncontrolling
interests and net income attributable to the shareholders of the Company separately in its consolidated statements of income. Currently, noncontrolling interests are reported between liabilities and shareholders  equity in the Company s
statement of financial position and the related income attributable to non-controlling interests is reflected as an expense in arriving at net income. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2010 fiscal year and requires retroactive
adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing non-controlling interests. All other requirements are to be applied prospectively.       Employee Compensation   Retirement Benefits       In September 2006, the
FASB issued guidance that requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and changes in that funded status to be
recognized in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. The guidance on retirement benefits also requires measurement of the funded status of a plan as of the end of the fiscal year. The Company adopted the recognition provision
in fiscal year 2007 which resulted in a $261 million charge to accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company adopted the measurement date provision by remeasuring plan assets and benefit obligations at the beginning of fiscal 2009. Adoption of
the measurement date provisions resulted in a reduction of $35 million to retained earnings and a $100 million benefit to accumulated other comprehensive income.      Key assumptions used for the measurement of pension and postretirement medical plans at the beginning of fiscal 2009 were 7.80% for the discount rate, 7.50% for the rate of return on plan assets, and
5.00% for salary increases. Based on this measurement of plan assets and benefit obligations, pension and postretirement medical costs decreased to approximately $214 million for fiscal 2009 compared to $255 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in
pension and postretirement medical expense was primarily due to an increase in the discount rate used to measure the present value of plan obligations.      The Company remeasured plan assets and benefit obligations at October 3, 2009 in accordance with new guidance on accounting for retirement plans. Key assumptions for the measurement at
October 3, 2009 were 5.75% for the discount rate, 7.75% for the rate of return on plan assets, and 4.50% for salary increases. Based on the measurement at October 3, 2009, the Company recorded an increase in unrecognized pension and
postretirement medical expense, which totals $2.8 billion ($1.8 billion after-tax) as of October 3, 2009.       Income Tax       In July 2006, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum probability threshold that a
tax position must meet before a financial statement benefit is recognized. The minimum threshold is defined as a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of
any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. The Company adopted the guidance on income taxes at the beginning of fiscal year 2008. Applying the guidance on income taxes to all tax positions upon adoption resulted in reductions of $148 million and $15 million to opening retained
earnings and minority interests, respectively.       FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS       The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
Company. We may from time to time make written or oral statements that are  forward-looking,  including statements contained in this report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in reports to our shareholders.
Such statements may, for example, express expectations or projections about future actions that we may take, including restructuring or strategic initiatives, or about developments beyond our control including changes in domestic or global economic
conditions. These statements are made on the basis of management s views and assumptions as of the time the statements are made and we undertake no obligation to update these statements. There can be no assurance, however, that our expectations
will necessarily come to pass. Significant factors affecting these expectations are set forth under Item 1A   Risk Factors of this Report on Form 10-K.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk       The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, commodity fluctuations
and changes in the market values of its investments.       Policies and Procedures       In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage the Company s exposure to changes in interest
rates, foreign currencies, commodities, and the fair market value of certain investments in debt and equity securities using a variety of financial instruments.      Our objectives in managing exposure to interest rate changes are to limit the impact of interest rate volatility on earnings and cash flows and to lower overall borrowing costs. To achieve these
objectives, we primarily use interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes related to the Company s portfolio of borrowings. By policy, the Company targets fixed-rate debt as a percentage of its net debt between minimum
and maximum percentages.      Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce volatility of
earnings and cash flow in order to allow management to focus on core business issues and challenges. Accordingly, the Company enters into various contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change to protect the U.S. dollar equivalent
value of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, commitments, and forecasted foreign currency revenues and expenses. The Company utilizes option strategies and forward contracts that provide for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies
to hedge probable, but not firmly committed, transactions. The Company also uses forward and option contracts to hedge foreign currency assets and liabilities. The principal foreign currencies hedged are the Euro, British pound, Japanese yen, and
Canadian dollar. Cross-currency swaps are used to effectively convert foreign currency denominated borrowings to U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. By policy, the Company maintains hedge coverage between minimum and maximum percentages of its
forecasted foreign exchange exposures generally for periods not to exceed four years. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related exposures.      Our objectives in managing exposure to commodity fluctuations are to use commodity derivatives to reduce volatility of earnings and cash
flows arising from commodity price changes. The amounts hedged using commodity swap contracts are based on forecasted levels of consumption of certain commodities, such as fuel oil and gasoline.      It is the Company s policy to enter into foreign currency and interest rate derivative transactions and other financial instruments
only to the extent considered necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into these transactions or any other hedging transactions for speculative purposes.       Value at Risk (VAR)       The
Company utilizes a VAR model to estimate the maximum potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate, foreign exchange, and market sensitive equity financial instruments. The VAR model estimates were made assuming normal market
conditions and a 95% confidence level. Various modeling techniques can be used in a VAR computation. The Company s computations are based on the interrelationships between movements in various interest rates, currencies, and equity prices (a
variance/co-variance technique). These interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate, foreign currency, and equity market changes over the preceding quarter for the calculation of VAR amounts at fiscal year end. The model includes
all of the Company s debt as well as all interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts and market sensitive equity investments. Forecasted transactions, firm commitments, and receivables and accounts payable denominated in foreign
currencies, which certain of these instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the model.      The VAR model is a risk
analysis tool and does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value that will be incurred by the Company, nor does it consider the potential effect of favorable changes in market factors.      VAR on a combined basis decreased to $34 million at October 3, 2009 from $68 million at September 27, 2008. The decrease was
primarily due to increased diversification benefits across financial instruments and lower volatility of interest rates and foreign exchange rates.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

   The estimated maximum potential one-day loss in fair value, calculated using the VAR model,
is as follows (unaudited, in millions):       
    The VAR for Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland is immaterial as of October 3,
2009 and accordingly, has been excluded from the above table.         ITEM 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data       See Index to Financial Statements and Supplemental Data on page 60.         ITEM 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       None.         ITEM 9A.  Controls and Procedures        Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures       We have established disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that the information required to be disclosed
by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and
made known to the officers who certify the Company s financial reports and to other members of senior management and the Board of Directors as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.      Based on their evaluation as of October 3, 2009, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company have
concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective.       Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management s report set forth on page 61 is incorporated herein by reference.       Changes in Internal Controls    
  There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended
October 3, 2009, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         ITEM 9B.  Other Information       None.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

    PART III          ITEM 10.   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       Information regarding Section 16(a) compliance, the Audit Committee, the Company s code of ethics and background of the directors appearing under the captions  Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Committees,   Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics  and  Election of Directors  in the Company s Proxy Statement for the 2010 annual meeting of Shareholders is
hereby incorporated by reference.      Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K as
permitted by General Instruction G(3).         ITEM 11.   Executive Compensation       Information appearing under the captions  Board Compensation  and  Executive Compensation  in the 2010 Proxy Statement
(other than the  Compensation Committee Report,  which is deemed furnished herein by reference) is hereby incorporated by reference.         ITEM 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       Information setting forth the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management appearing under the caption  Stock Ownership  and information in the  Equity Compensation
Plans  table appearing under the caption  Equity Compensation Plans  in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.         ITEM 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       Information regarding certain related transactions appearing under the captions  Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions  and information regarding director independence appearing
under the caption  Director Independence  in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.        
 ITEM 14.   Principal Accountant Fees and Services       Information appearing under the captions
 Auditor Fees and Services  and  Policy for Approval of Audit and Permitted Non-Audit Services  in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV          ITEM 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(1)  
  Financial Statements and Schedules        See Index to Financial Statements and Supplemental Data at page 60.       
    The documents set
forth below are filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference to the location indicated.       
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

56   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit  
      
    Location    

10.28  
      
  Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement (Seven-year Form)  
      
  Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ended March 28, 2009   

10.29  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement in Lieu of Equitable Adjustment  
      
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q of the Company for the period ended June 30, 2007   

10.30  
      
  Voting Agreement, by and between The Walt Disney Company and Mr. Isaac Perlmutter, dated as of August 31, 2009  
      
  Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated August 31, 2009   

21  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Company  
      
  Filed herewith   

23  
      
  Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
      
  Filed herewith   

31(a)  
      
  Rule 13a   14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
  Filed herewith   

31(b)  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
  Filed herewith   

32(a)  
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*  
      
  Furnished herewith   

32(b)  
      
  Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer of the Company in accordance with Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*  
      
  Furnished herewith   

101  
      
  The following materials from the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 3, 2009 formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) the
Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity and (v) related notes, tagged as blocks of text  
      
  Furnished herewith   

*  
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.           
   57   

Table of Contents  

     SIGNATURES      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY   

(Registrant)   

Date: December 2, 2009   
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ ROBERT A. IGER    

(Robert A. Iger, President and Chief Executive Officer)   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature   
      
    Title   
     
    Date    

Principal Executive Officer   
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    /s/ ROBERT A. IGER   

(Robert A. Iger)   

Principal Financial and Accounting Officers   
      
  Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    /s/ THOMAS O. STAGGS   

(Thomas O. Staggs)   

/s/ BRENT A. WOODFORD   
      
  Senior Vice President-Planning and Control  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Brent A. Woodford)   

Directors         /s/ SUSAN E. ARNOLD   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
  (Susan E. Arnold)  

/s/ JOHN E. BRYSON   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
  (John E. Bryson)  

/s/ JOHN S. CHEN   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (John S. Chen)   

/s/ JUDITH L. ESTRIN   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Judith L. Estrin)   

/s/ ROBERT A. IGER   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Robert A. Iger)   

/s/ STEVEN P. JOBS   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Steven P. Jobs)   

/s/ FRED H. LANGHAMMER   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Fred H. Langhammer)   

/s/ AYLWIN B. LEWIS   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Aylwin B. Lewis)   

58   

Table of Contents  

Signature   
      
    Title   
     
    Date    

/s/ MONICA C. LOZANO   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Monica C. Lozano)   

/s/ ROBERT W. MATSCHULLAT   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Robert W. Matschullat)   

/s/ JOHN E. PEPPER, JR.   
      
  Chairman of the Board and Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (John E. Pepper, Jr.)   

/s/ ORIN C. SMITH   
      
  Director  
     
  December 2, 2009   
 
    (Orin C. Smith)   

59   

Table of Contents  

        THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES
       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA        
    All schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or notes.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

      MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting,
as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements prepared for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer,
we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework,  management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 3, 2009.      The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 3, 2009 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of The Walt Disney Company      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of The Walt Disney Company and its subsidiaries (the Company) at October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
October 3, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
October 3, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      As discussed in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes in 2008 and its method of accounting for pension and
other postretirement benefit plans in 2007 and 2009.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP      Los Angeles, California      December 2, 2009         
   62   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME        (in millions, except per share data)        
       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

   63   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (in millions, except per share data)        
       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

   64   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (in millions)        
       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

   65   

Table of Contents  

      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY
       (in millions, except per share data)        
       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          

   66   

Table of Contents  

      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts)        

1   
        Description of the Business and Segment Information              The Walt Disney Company, together with the subsidiaries
through which businesses are conducted (the Company), is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in the following business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, Consumer Products and Interactive
Media.      DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS       Media Networks       The Company operates the ABC Television Network and ten owned television stations, as well as
the ESPN Radio Network and Radio Disney Network (the Radio Networks) and 46 owned radio stations. Both the television and radio networks have affiliated stations providing coverage to households throughout the United States. The Company has cable
networks that are principally involved in the production and distribution of cable television programming, the licensing of programming in domestic and international markets, and investing in foreign television broadcasting, production, and
distribution entities. Primary cable programming services that operate through consolidated subsidiaries are the ESPN-branded networks, Disney Channel Worldwide, SOAPnet, Disney XD and ABC Family. Other programming services that operate through a
joint venture and are accounted for under the equity method include A E Television Networks and Lifetime Entertainment Services. The Company also produces original television programming for network, first-run syndication, pay, and international
syndication markets, along with original animated television programming for network, pay, and international syndication markets. Additionally, the Company operates ABC-, ESPN-, ABC Family- and SOAPnet-branded internet businesses.      On June 12, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its wholly owned subsidiary, ABC Radio Holdings, Inc., and its merger into a
subsidiary of Citadel Broadcasting Corporation (Citadel). Prior to the spin-off, the Company consolidated its ABC Radio Business, consisting of 22 large-market radio stations and the ABC Radio Network businesses, under ABC Radio Holdings, Inc. The
transaction did not include the Company s ESPN Radio or Radio Disney network and station businesses. Additional information regarding this transaction is included in Note 5.       Parks and Resorts       The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World
Resort in Florida and the Disneyland Resort in California. The Walt Disney World Resort includes four theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney s Hollywood Studios, and Disney s Animal Kingdom), 17 resort hotels, a retail, dining, and
entertainment complex, a sports complex, conference centers, campgrounds, golf courses, water parks, and other recreational facilities. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney s California Adventure), three resort
hotels, and a retail, dining and entertainment complex. The Company manages and has an effective 51% ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, which includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park), seven themed hotels, two
convention centers, a shopping, dining and entertainment complex, and a 27-hole golf facility. The Company also manages and has a 47% ownership interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, which includes one theme park and two resort hotels. The Company
earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disneyland Resort, which includes two theme parks and three Disney-branded hotels, and is owned and operated by an unrelated Japanese corporation. The Company also manages and markets vacation club
ownership interests through the Disney Vacation Club, operates the Disney Cruise Line out of Port Canaveral, Florida, and Adventures by Disney. The Company s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops new theme park concepts and
attractions, as well as resort properties.       Studio Entertainment       The Company produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures for worldwide distribution to the theatrical, home entertainment,
and television markets. The Company distributes these products through its own distribution and marketing companies in the United States and foreign markets primarily under the Walt Disney Pictures, Touchstone Pictures, Miramax, Pixar, and
Disneynature banners, as well as Dimension for titles released prior to September 30, 2005. The Company also produces stage plays, musical recordings and live entertainment events.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

    Consumer Products       The Company licenses the name  Walt Disney,  as well as the Company s characters and visual and literary properties, to various manufacturers, retailers, show promoters, and publishers
throughout the world. The Company also engages in retail and online distribution of products through The Disney Store and DisneyStore.com. The Disney Store is owned and operated in Europe and North America and franchised in Japan. The Company
publishes entertainment and educational books and magazines for children and families.       Disney Interactive Media Group       The Company creates and delivers Disney-branded entertainment and lifestyle content across interactive media platforms. The primary operating
businesses are Disney Interactive Studios, which produces video games for global distribution, and Disney Online, which produces web sites and online virtual worlds in the United States and internationally. The Interactive Media Group also manages
Disney-branded mobile phone initiatives.      SEGMENT INFORMATION      The operating segments reported below are the segments of the Company for which separate financial information is available and for which segment results are evaluated regularly by the Chief Executive
Officer in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.      Segment operating results reflect earnings before
corporate and unallocated shared expenses, restructuring and impairment charges, other income (expense), net interest expense, income taxes, and minority interests. Segment operating income includes equity in the income of investees. Equity
investees consist primarily of AETN/Lifetime, which is a cable business included in the Media Networks segment. Corporate and unallocated shared expenses principally consist of corporate functions, executive management, and certain unallocated
administrative support functions.      Equity in the income of investees by segment is as follows:       

(1)     
    Substantially all of these amounts relate to investments at Cable Networks.            
   68   

Table of Contents  

   The following segment results include allocations of certain costs, including information
technology, pension, legal, and other shared services costs, which are allocated based on metrics designed to correlate with consumption. These allocations are agreed-upon amounts between the businesses and may differ from amounts that would be
negotiated in arm s length transactions. In addition, all significant intersegment transactions have been eliminated except that Studio Entertainment revenues and operating income include an allocation of Consumer Products and Interactive Media
revenues, which is meant to reflect royalties on sales of merchandise based on certain Studio film properties.       
       
   69   

Table of Contents  

70   

Table of Contents  

(1)     
    Identifiable assets include amounts associated with equity method investments. Equity method investments by segment are as follows:

(2)   
        Goodwill and
intangible assets by segment are as follows:          

(3)   
        Primarily deferred
tax assets, investments, fixed assets, and other assets.          

(4)   
        Advertising
revenue includes amounts reported in Interactive Media.          

(5)   
        Long-lived assets
include total assets less current assets, financial investments and derivatives recorded in other non-current assets.          

2   
        Summary of Significant Accounting Policies               Principles of Consolidation       The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts of The Walt Disney Company and its majority-owned and controlled
subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In December 1999, DVD Financing, Inc. (DFI), a subsidiary of Disney Vacation Development, Inc. and an indirect subsidiary of the Company, completed a
receivable sale transaction that established a facility that permits DFI to sell receivables arising from the sale of vacation club memberships on a periodic basis. In connection with this facility, DFI prepares separate financial statements,
although its separate assets and liabilities are also consolidated in these financial statements. DFI s ability to sell new receivables under this facility ended on December 4, 2008. (See Note 16 for further discussion of this facility)
      Reporting Period       The Company s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to September 30 and consists of fifty-two weeks with the exception that approximately every six years, we have a fifty-three week year. When a fifty-three week year occurs, the
Company reports the additional week in the fourth quarter. Fiscal 2009 is a fifty-three week year beginning on September 28, 2008 and ending on October 3, 2009.       Reclassifications       Certain reclassifications have been made in the fiscal
2008 and fiscal 2007 financial statements and notes to conform to the fiscal 2009 presentation.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

    Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and footnotes thereto. Actual results may differ from those estimates.       Revenue Recognition       Broadcast advertising revenues are recognized when commercials are aired. Revenues from television subscription services related to the
Company s primary cable programming services are recognized as services are provided. Certain of the Company s existing contracts with cable and satellite operators include annual live programming commitments. In these cases, recognition
of revenues subject to the commitments is deferred until the annual commitments are satisfied, which generally results in higher revenue recognition in the second half of the year.      Revenues from advance theme park ticket sales are recognized when the tickets are used. For non-expiring, multi-day tickets, we recognize
revenue over a three-year time period based on estimated usage, which is derived from historical usage patterns.      Revenues
from the theatrical distribution of motion pictures are recognized when motion pictures are exhibited. Revenues from video and video game sales, net of anticipated returns and customer incentives, are recognized on the date that video units are made
available for sale by retailers. Revenues from the licensing of feature films and television programming are recorded when the material is available for telecast by the licensee and when certain other conditions are met.      Merchandise licensing advances and guarantee royalty payments are recognized based on the contractual royalty rate when the licensed product
is sold by the licensee. Non-refundable advances and minimum guarantee royalty payments in excess of royalties earned are generally recognized as revenue at the end of the contract term.      Revenues from our internet and mobile operations are recognized as services are rendered. Advertising revenues at our internet operations
are recognized when advertisements are viewed online.      Taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities
are presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income on a net basis.       Advertising Expense       Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising expense for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.7 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.6
billion, respectively.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and marketable securities with original maturities of three months or less.       Investments       Debt securities that the Company has the positive intent and
ability to hold to maturity are classified as  held-to-maturity  and reported at amortized cost. Debt securities not classified as held-to-maturity and marketable equity securities are classified as either  trading  or
 available-for-sale . Trading and available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income/ (loss), respectively. All other equity securities
are accounted for using either the cost method or the equity method.      The Company regularly reviews its investments to
determine whether a decline in fair value below the cost basis is other than temporary. If the decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the investment is written down to fair value, and the amount of the
write-down is included in the Consolidated Statements of Income.       Translation Policy       The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for the majority of our international operations. The local currency is the functional currency
for Euro Disney, Hong Kong Disneyland, Jetix and international locations of The Disney Stores.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   For U.S. dollar functional currency locations, foreign currency assets and liabilities are
remeasured into U.S. dollars at end-of-period exchange rates, except for nonmonetary balance sheet accounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are remeasured at average exchange rates in effect during each
period, except for those expenses related to the non-monetary balance sheet amounts, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in income.      For local currency functional locations, assets and liabilities are translated at end-of-period rates while revenues and expenses are
translated at average rates in effect during the period. Equity is translated at historical rates and the resulting cumulative translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.       Inventories       Inventory
primarily includes vacation timeshare units, merchandise, materials, and supplies. Carrying amounts of vacation ownership units are carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Carrying amounts of merchandise, materials, and supplies
inventories are generally determined on a moving average cost basis and are stated at the lower of cost or market.       Film and Television
Costs       Film and television costs include capitalizable production costs, production overhead, interest, development costs,
and acquired production costs and are stated at the lower of cost, less accumulated amortization, or fair value. Acquired programming costs for the Company s television and cable networks are stated at the lower of cost, less accumulated
amortization, or net realizable value. Acquired television broadcast program licenses and rights are recorded when the license period begins and the program is available for use. Marketing, distribution, and general and administrative costs are
expensed as incurred.      Film and television production, participation and residual costs are expensed based on the ratio of the
current period s revenues to estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues) from all sources on an individual production basis. Ultimate Revenues for film productions include revenues that will be earned within ten years from the date
of the initial theatrical release. For television network series, we include revenues that will be earned within ten years from delivery of the first episode, or if still in production, five years from delivery of the most recent episode, if later.
For acquired film libraries, remaining revenues include amounts to be earned for up to twenty years from the date of acquisition. Costs of film and television productions are subject to regular recoverability assessments which compare the estimated
fair values with the unamortized costs. The amount by which the unamortized costs of film and television productions exceed their estimated fair values is written off. Film development costs for projects that have been abandoned or have not been set
for production within three years are generally written off.      We expense the cost of television broadcast rights for acquired
movies, series and other programs based on the number of times the program is expected to be aired or on a straight-line basis over the useful life, as appropriate. Rights costs for multi-year sports programming arrangements are amortized based upon
the ratio of the current period s revenues to Ultimate Revenues (the Projected Revenue Method) or on a straight-line basis over the contract period, as appropriate. Ultimate Revenues for multi-year sports programming rights include both
advertising revenues and an allocation of Affiliate Fees. If the annual contractual payments related to each season over the term of a multi-year sports programming arrangement approximate each season s rights cost based on the Projected
Revenue Method, we expense the related annual payments during the applicable season. Individual programs are written-off when there are no plans to air or sublicense the program.      The net realizable value of network television broadcast program licenses and rights is reviewed using a daypart methodology. A daypart is
defined as an aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or programs of a similar type. The Company s dayparts are early morning, daytime, late night, primetime, news, children, and sports (includes network and cable).
The net realizable values of other cable programming assets are reviewed on an aggregated basis for each cable channel.       Internal-Use
Software Costs       The Company expenses costs incurred in the preliminary project stage of developing or acquiring internal
use software, such as research and feasibility studies, as well as costs incurred in the post-implementation/operational stage, such as maintenance and training. Capitalization of software development costs occurs only after the
        
   73   

Table of Contents  

preliminary-project stage is complete, management authorizes the project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used for the function intended. As of
October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, capitalized software costs, net of accumulated depreciation, totaled $595 million and $526 million, respectively. The capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of
the software, ranging from 3-10 years.       Software Product Development Costs       Software product development costs incurred prior to reaching technological feasibility are expensed. We have determined that technological
feasibility of the software is not established until substantially all product development is complete.       Parks, Resorts and Other Property
      Parks, resorts, and other property are carried at historical cost. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line method
over estimated useful lives as follows:       

Attractions   
      
  25   40 years   
 
    Buildings and improvements   
      
  20   40 years   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Life of lease or asset life if less   
 
    Land improvements   
      
  20   40 years   
 
    Furniture, fixtures and equipment   
      
  3   25 years   
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets       The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and between annual
tests if current events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are generally an operating segment or one reporting level below the operating segment. The Company compares
the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair
value of the goodwill within the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of its goodwill.      To determine the fair value
of our reporting units, we generally use a present value (discounted cash flow) technique corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. We apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our
reporting units. We include in the projected cash flows an estimate of the revenue we believe the reporting unit would receive if the intellectual property developed by the reporting unit that is being used by other reporting units was licensed to
an unrelated third party at its fair market value. These amounts are not necessarily the same as those included in segment operating results.      In light of recent adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company s long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. If we had established
different reporting units or utilized different valuation methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges. Because of the way the accounting rules work, a relatively
modest reduction in our estimate of the fair value of our Broadcasting reporting unit could result in a significant goodwill impairment charge.      The Company is required to compare the fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets to their carrying amounts. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair
value, an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values of other indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate.      During the current year, the Company tested its goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. The Company recorded non-cash
impairment charges of $142 million for FCC radio licenses. During fiscal years 2008 and 2007, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $39 million and $26 million, respectively, related to FCC radio licenses. The FCC radio license
impairment charges reflected overall market declines in certain radio markets in which we operate. The FCC radio license and goodwill impairment charges, which were estimated using a discounted cash flow model, were recorded in  Restructuring
and impairment charges  in the Consolidated Statements of Income.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

   Amortizable intangible assets, the majority of which are copyrights, are generally amortized
on a straight-line basis over periods of up to 31 years.       Risk Management Contracts       In the normal course of business, the Company employs a variety of financial instruments to manage its exposure to fluctuations in interest
rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and investments in equity and debt securities, including interest rate and cross-currency swap agreements; forward, option and  swaption  contracts and interest rate caps.      The Company formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and
strategies for undertaking various hedge transactions. There are two types of derivatives into which the Company enters: hedges of fair value exposure and hedges of cash flow exposure. Hedges of fair value exposure are entered into in order to hedge
the fair value of a recognized asset, liability, or a firm commitment. Hedges of cash flow exposure are entered into in order to hedge a forecasted transaction (e.g. forecasted revenue) or the variability of cash flows to be paid or received,
related to a recognized liability or asset (e.g. floating rate debt).      The Company designates and assigns the financial
instruments as hedges of forecasted transactions, specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer expected to occur, the Company recognizes
the gain or loss on the designated hedging financial instruments.      Option premiums and unrealized gains on forward contracts
and the accrued differential for interest rate and cross-currency swaps to be received under the agreements are recorded on the balance sheet as other assets. Unrealized losses on forward contracts and the accrued differential for interest rate and
cross-currency swaps to be paid under the agreements are included in liabilities. Realized gains and losses from hedges are classified in the income statement consistent with the accounting treatment of the items being hedged. The Company accrues
the differential for interest rate and cross-currency swaps to be paid or received under the agreements as interest rates and exchange rates change as adjustments to interest expense over the lives of the swaps. Gains and losses on the termination
of effective swap agreements, prior to their original maturity, are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the underlying hedged transactions.      The Company enters into risk management contracts that are not designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. These contracts
are intended to offset certain economic exposures of the Company and are carried at market value with any changes in value recorded in earnings. Cash flows from hedging activities are classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows under the
same category as the cash flows from the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions (see Notes 9 and 17).       Income Taxes  
     The Company accounts for current and deferred income taxes and when appropriate, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recorded with respect to temporary differences in the accounting treatment of items for financial reporting purposes and for income tax purposes. Where, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some amount of
recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established for that amount that, in management s judgment, is sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized.
     In July 2006, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum probability
threshold that a tax position must meet before a financial statement benefit is recognized. The minimum threshold is defined as a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority,
including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being
realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company adopted this guidance on its income tax positions at the beginning of fiscal year 2008 which resulted in reductions of $148 million and $15 million to opening retained earnings and minority interests,
respectively.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

    Earnings Per Share       The Company presents both basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) amounts. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted EPS is based upon the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the year which is calculated using the treasury-stock method for equity-based awards and assumes conversion of the Company s
convertible senior notes which were redeemed during fiscal 2008 (see Note 12). Common equivalent shares are excluded from the computation in periods for which they have an anti-dilutive effect. Stock options for which the exercise price exceeds the
average market price over the period are anti-dilutive and, accordingly, are excluded from the calculation.      A reconciliation
of income from continuing operations and the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding for calculating diluted earnings per share from continuing operations is as follows:       
    For fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, options for 145 million, 70 million and
43 million shares, respectively, were excluded from the diluted EPS calculation because they were anti-dilutive.       Subsequent Events
      The Company evaluated subsequent events through December 2, 2009.       

3   
        New Accounting Pronouncements               Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables       In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables effective
for the Company s 2011 fiscal year, although early adoption is permitted. The guidance revises the criteria for separating, measuring, and allocating arrangement consideration to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. The guidance
requires companies to allocate revenue using the relative selling price of each deliverable, which must be estimated if the Company does not have a history of selling the deliverable on a stand-alone basis or third-party evidence of selling price.
The Company is assessing the potential effect of this guidance on its financial statements.       Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
      In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on transfers and servicing of financial assets to eliminate the concept of a
qualifying special-purpose entity, change the requirements for off balance sheet accounting for financial assets including limiting the circumstances where off balance sheet treatment for a portion of a financial asset is allowable, and require
additional disclosures. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The Company does not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on its financial statements.       Variable Interest Entities       In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to revise the approach to determine when a variable interest entity (VIE) should be consolidated. The new consolidation model for VIEs considers whether the Company has the power to direct the
activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and shares in the significant risks and
        
   76   

Table of Contents  

rewards of the entity. The guidance on VIE s requires companies to continually reassess VIEs to determine if consolidation is appropriate and provide additional disclosures. The guidance is
effective for the Company s 2011 fiscal year. The Company is assessing the potential effect of this guidance will have,on its financial statements.       Collaborative Arrangements       In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance that
defines collaborative arrangements and establishes accounting and reporting requirements for such arrangements. A collaborative arrangement is a contractual arrangement that involves a joint operating activity, for example an agreement to co-produce
and distribute a motion picture with another studio. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2010 fiscal year. The Company does not expect that the adoption of the guidance on collaborative arrangements will have a material impact on its
financial statements.       Business Combinations       In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance that establishes principles and requirements for determining how a company recognizes and measures the fair value of certain assets and liabilities acquired in a
business combination, including noncontrolling interests, contingent consideration, and certain acquired contingencies. The guidance on business combinations also requires acquisition-related transaction expenses and restructuring costs be expensed
as incurred rather than capitalized. This guidance will be applicable prospectively to business combinations beginning in the Company s 2010 fiscal year.       Noncontrolling Interest (Minority Interest)       In
December 2007, the FASB issued guidance on the accounting and reporting for a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary. Upon adoption of this guidance, the Company will be required to report its noncontrolling interests as a separate component of
shareholders  equity. The Company will also be required to present net income attributable to the noncontrolling interests and net income attributable to the shareholders of the Company separately in its consolidated statements of income.
Currently, noncontrolling interests are reported between liabilities and shareholders  equity in the Company s statement of financial position and the related income attributable to non-controlling interests is reflected as an expense in
arriving at net income. The guidance is effective for the Company s 2010 fiscal year and requires retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing non-controlling interests. All other requirements are to be
applied prospectively.       Employee Compensation   Retirement Benefits       In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance that requires recognition of the overfunded or underfunded status of defined benefit pension and
other postretirement plans as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position and changes in that funded status to be recognized in comprehensive income in the year in which the changes occur. The guidance on retirement benefits also
requires measurement of the funded status of a plan as of the end of the fiscal year. The Company adopted the recognition provision in fiscal year 2007 which resulted in a $261 million charge to accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company
adopted the measurement date provision by remeasuring plan assets and benefit obligations at the beginning of fiscal 2009. Adoption of the measurement date provisions resulted in a reduction of $35 million to retained earnings and a $100 million
benefit to accumulated other comprehensive income.      Key assumptions used for the measurement of pension and postretirement
medical plans at the beginning of fiscal 2009 were 7.80% for the discount rate, 7.50% for the rate of return on plan assets, and 5.00% for salary increases. Based on this measurement of plan assets and benefit obligations, pension and postretirement
medical costs decreased to approximately $214 million for fiscal 2009 compared to $255 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in pension and postretirement medical expense was primarily due to an increase in the discount rate used to measure the
present value of plan obligations.      The Company remeasured plan assets and benefit obligations at October 3, 2009 in
accordance with new guidance on accounting for retirement plans. Key assumptions for the measurement at October 3, 2009 were 5.75% for the discount rate, 7.75% for the rate of return on plan assets, and 4.50% for salary increases. Based on the
measurement at October 3, 2009, the Company recorded an increase in unrecognized pension and postretirement medical expense, which totals $2.8 billion ($1.8 billion after-tax) as of October 3, 2009.       Income Tax       In July 2006,
the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing a minimum probability threshold that a tax position must meet before a financial statement benefit is recognized. The minimum threshold is defined as a tax
position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the
        
   77   

Table of Contents  

applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit to be recognized is measured as
the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company adopted the guidance on income taxes at the beginning of fiscal year 2008. Applying the guidance on income taxes to all
tax positions upon adoption resulted in reductions of $148 million and $15 million to opening retained earnings and minority interests, respectively.       

4   
        Acquisitions     
         A E / Lifetime       On September 15, 2009, the Company and the Hearst Corporation (Hearst) both contributed their 50% interests in Lifetime Entertainment Services LLC (Lifetime) to A E Television Networks, LLC (AETN) in
exchange for an increased interest in AETN. Prior to this transaction, the Company and Hearst each held 37.5% of AETN while NBC Universal (NBCU) held 25%. The Company accounted for the transaction as a sale of a portion of its interest in Lifetime
which resulted in a $228 million non-cash pre-tax gain ($142 million after-tax) reflecting the difference between the Company s carrying amount of the Lifetime interest sold and the fair value of the incremental AETN interest received.
Following the transaction the Company s ownership interest in the combined AETN/Lifetime is approximately 42%. Under the terms of the agreement, NBCU may elect or be required to exit the combined AETN/Lifetime over a period of up to 15 years,
in which event the Company and Hearst would each own 50%. The Company will account for its interest in the combined AETN/Lifetime as an equity method investment consistent with how it previously accounted for AETN and Lifetime.       Marvel       On August 31,
2009, the Company announced an agreement to acquire Marvel Entertainment, Inc. (Marvel) in a cash and stock transaction. Under the terms of the agreement Marvel shareholders would receive $30 per share in cash and 0.7452 Disney shares for each
Marvel share they own. At closing, the amount of cash and stock will be adjusted if necessary so that the total value of the Disney stock issued as merger consideration based on its trading value at that time is not less than 40% of the total merger
consideration. Based upon Disney s stock price as of November 20, 2009, the acquisition purchase price would be approximately $4 billion. The acquisition is subject to the effectiveness of a registration statement with respect to Disney
shares to be issued in the transaction and other customary closing conditions. The acquisition is also subject to the approval of Marvel shareholders.       Jetix Europe       In December 2008, the Company acquired an additional 26% interest in Jetix Europe N.V., a
publicly traded pan-European kids  entertainment company, for approximately $354 million (bringing our total ownership interest to over 99%). The Company intends to acquire the remaining outstanding shares through statutory buy-out proceedings.
      UTV       On
May 9, 2008, the Company acquired a 24% interest (bringing its fully undiluted interest to 37%) in UTV Software Communications Limited (UTV), a media company headquartered and publicly traded in India, for approximately $197 million. In
accordance with Indian securities regulations, the Company was required to make an open tender offer to purchase up to an additional 23% of UTV s publicly traded voting shares for a price equivalent to the May 9th, 2008 Indian rupee
purchase price. In November 2008, the Company completed the open offer and acquired an incremental 23% of UTV s voting shares for approximately $138 million bringing its undiluted interest to 60%. Due to the change in the exchange rate between
the US dollar and the Indian rupee from May to November, the US dollar price per share was lower in November than in May. UTV s founder has a four year option to buy all or a portion of the shares acquired by the Company during the open offer
period at a price no less than the Company s open offer price. If the trading price upon exercise of the option exceeds the price paid by the Company, then the option price is capped at the Company s open offer price plus a 10% annual
return. The Company does not have the right to vote the shares subject to the option until the expiration of the option and accordingly the Company s ownership interest in voting shares is 48%. In addition to the acquisition of UTV, on
August 5, 2008, the Company invested $28 million in a UTV subsidiary, UTV Global Broadcasting Limited (along with UTV, the  UTV Group ). The Company s investment in the UTV Group is accounted for under the equity method.
     Although UTV s operating performance to date has generally been consistent with our expectations, in light of recent
economic conditions we have tempered our future expectations. Based on the Company s internal valuation of the UTV business, which was estimated using a discounted cash flow model, we recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $65 million in
fiscal 2009. The Company s carrying value of its investment in the UTV Group of $298
        
   78   

Table of Contents  

million significantly exceeds the current trading value, and the Company will continue to monitor its investment in the UTV Group. UTV has recently announced that it is considering raising
additional capital which could consist of equity shares of UTV stock, debentures or foreign currency convertible bonds. If UTV issued additional shares, depending upon the price of the issuance, an incremental impairment of our investment in UTV
Group could be required.       The Disney Stores North America       On April 30, 2008, the Company acquired certain assets of the Disney Stores North America for approximately $64 million in cash from, and terminated its long-term licensing arrangement for the Disney
Stores with, The Children s Place, the former licensee. The Company acquired the inventory, leasehold improvements, and certain fixed assets of, and assumed the leases on 229 stores. The Company conducted the wind-down and closure of an
additional 88 stores but did not assume the leases on these stores.      In connection with the acquisition, the Company waived
its rights to certain claims against The Children s Place and in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance recorded an $18 million non-cash gain for the estimated fair value of the claims. The gain is classified in  Other income
(expense)  in the Consolidated Statement of Income.       Club Penguin       On August 1, 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Club Penguin Entertainment, Inc. (Club Penguin), a Canadian
company that operates clubpenguin.com, an online virtual world for children. The purchase price included upfront cash consideration of approximately $350 million and additional consideration of up to $350 million payable if Club Penguin achieved
predefined earnings targets in calendar years 2008 and 2009. There have been no additional payments of consideration for Club Penguin. Remaining additional consideration of up to $175 million is potentially payable based on calendar year 2009
results.       NASN       On February 1, 2007, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of NASN, an Irish company that operates cable television networks in Europe dedicated to North American sporting events and related programming, for consideration
valued at $112 million consisting of cash and assumption of debt. In February, 2009, NASN was rebranded as ESPN America.      The
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008 are as follows:       

5   
        Dispositions and Other Income (Expense)               ABC Radio Transaction       On June 12, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its wholly-owned subsidiary, ABC Radio Holdings, Inc., and its merger into a subsidiary of Citadel Broadcasting Corporation (Citadel). Prior to
the spin-off, the Company consolidated its ABC Radio business, consisting of 22 large-market radio stations and the ABC Radio Network businesses, under ABC Radio Holdings, Inc. The transaction did not include the Company s ESPN Radio or Radio
Disney network and station businesses.      As a result of the spin-off and merger, Company shareholders received approximately
0.0768 shares of Citadel common stock in exchange for each share of Disney common stock held as of June 6, 2007. As part of the transaction, the Company retained $1.35 billion of cash, representing the proceeds from debt raised by ABC Radio
Holdings, Inc. prior to the spin-off. This debt and the assets and liabilities of the ABC Radio business were removed from the Company s balance sheet as a distribution at book value. Consequently, there was no gain or loss recorded and the
negative net book value of $132 million was credited to retained earnings.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

   Results of the ABC Radio business have been reported as discontinued operations for all
periods.      Summarized financial information for the discontinued ABC Radio business through the date of the spin-off is as
follows (in millions):      Income Statement Data:       
     Other Dispositions       The following dispositions occurred during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007:       

On December 22, 2008, the Company sold its investment in two pay television services in Latin America for approximately $185 million, resulting in
a pre-tax gain of $114 million.          

These gains are reported in  Other income (expense)  in the Consolidated
Statements of Income.       Other income (expense)       Other income (expense) is as follows:       

6   
        Investments     
        Investments consist of the following:       

(1)     
    Equity investments consist of investments in companies over which the Company has significant influence but not the majority of the equity or risks and
rewards.            
   80   

Table of Contents  

    Investments, Equity Basis       A summary of combined financial information for equity investments, which primarily includes cable investments such as AETN /Lifetime, is as
follows:       
     Investments, Other       As of October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, the Company held $78 million and $72 million, respectively, of securities classified
as available-for-sale and $263 million and $262 million, respectively, of non-publicly traded cost-method investments.      In
2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company had no significant gains or losses on available-for-sale securities.      In 2009, 2008 and 2007,
the Company recorded non-cash charges of $86 million (principally related to our investment in UTV Group), $26 million and $18 million, respectively, to reflect other-than-temporary losses in value of certain investments.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

7   
        Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland              The Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in the operations of Euro Disney and a 47%
ownership interest in the operations of Hong Kong Disneyland which are both variable interest entities and are consolidated in the Company s financial statements.      The following table presents a condensed consolidating balance sheet for the Company as of October 3, 2009, reflecting the impact of consolidating the balance sheets of Euro Disney and Hong Kong
Disneyland.       
    The following table presents a condensed consolidating income statement of the
Company for the year ended October 3, 2009, reflecting the impact of consolidating the income statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.       

(1)     
    These amounts include Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland under the equity method of accounting. As such, royalty and management fee income from these
operations is included in Revenues and our share of their net income/(loss) is included in Equity in the income of investees.            
   82   

Table of Contents  

   The following table presents a condensed consolidating cash flow statement of the Company
for the year ended October 3, 2009, reflecting the impact of consolidating the cash flow statements of Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland.       
     Euro Disney Financial Restructuring       Effective October 1, 2004, Euro Disney, the Company, and Euro Disney s lenders finalized a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) related to
the financial restructuring of Euro Disney (the 2005 Financial Restructuring) which provided for new financing as well as the restructuring of Euro Disney s existing financing at that time. The transactions contemplated by the MOA were fully
implemented on February 23, 2005 with the completion of a  253 million equity rights offering in which the Company invested  100 million. The MOA included provisions for deferral of certain royalties and management fees payable
by Euro Disney to the Company as follows:       

Royalties and management fees for fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2009, totaling  125 million, payable to the Company have been deferred and
converted into subordinated long-term borrowings          

Royalties and management fees for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2014, of up to  25 million per year, are subject to conditional deferral and
conversion into subordinated long-term borrowings if operating results do not achieve specified levels. Royalties and management fees for fiscal 2008 and 2007, subject to conditional deferral, were not deferred and have been paid. Based on operating
results and subject to third-party confirmation, the Company will defer  25 million of royalties and management fees subject to conditional deferral for fiscal 2009         Certain indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Walt Disney Company have liability as current or former general partners of Disney S.C.A.
In addition to their equity interest in Disney S.C.A., certain of these subsidiaries of the Company have been capitalized with interest-bearing demand notes with an aggregate face value of  200 million. In addition, interest of
 35 million has accrued on the notes from the date of issuance and has been added to the amount owed.       Hong Kong Disneyland
capital realignment       In July 2009, the Company entered into a capital realignment and expansion plan for Hong Kong
Disneyland (HKDL) with the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), Hong Kong Disneyland s majority shareholder. Key provisions of the plan include:       

The Company converted its $354 million term and revolving credit facility loan to HKDL into equity during fiscal 2009. This was accompanied by
conversion of an equal amount of the HKSAR loan to HKDL into equity          

The Company will make approximately $0.45 billion of equity contributions over approximately five years to fund an expansion of HKDL and other
financial needs during this period. The actual amount of equity contributions by the Company may differ depending on the actual final cost of the expansion and operating results of HKDL during the relevant timeframe. The HKSAR will convert an
additional amount of its loan to HKDL equal to these contributions into equity, subject to a maximum conversion amount that would leave approximately $128 million (HK $1.0 billion) of the HKSAR loan to HKDL outstanding. At October 3, 2009, the
HKSAR loan to HKDL was $524 million. During fiscal 2009, the Company made equity contributions totaling $40 million in addition to the conversion of its $354 million loan to HKDL into equity            
   83   

Table of Contents  

   As a result of the above arrangement, the Company s interest in HKDL increased from 43%
to 47% during fiscal 2009 and is projected to increase to approximately 48%, although the Company s ending ownership will depend on the aggregate amount of equity contributions made by the Company pursuant to the expansion plan.       

8   
        Film and Television Costs     
        Film and Television costs are as follows:       
    Based on management s total gross revenue estimates as of October 3, 2009,
approximately 84% of unamortized film and television costs for released productions (excluding amounts allocated to acquired film and television libraries) are expected to be amortized during the next three years. Approximately $632 million of
accrued participation and residual liabilities will be paid in fiscal year 2010. The Company expects to amortize, based on current estimates, approximately $1.5 billion in capitalized film and television production costs during fiscal 2010.
     At October 3, 2009, acquired film and television libraries have remaining unamortized costs of $325 million, which are
generally amortized straight-line over a weighted-average remaining period of approximately 11 years.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

9   
        Borrowings     
        The Company s borrowings at October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, including the impact of
interest rate swaps designated as hedges, are summarized below:       

(1)   
    The stated interest rate represents the weighted-average coupon rate for each category of borrowings. For floating rate borrowings, interest rates are
based upon the rates at October 3, 2009; these rates are not necessarily an indication of future interest rates.          

(2)   
    Amounts represent notional values of interest rate and cross-currency swaps as of October 3, 2009.          

(3)   
    The effective interest rate includes the impact of existing and terminated interest rate and cross-currency swaps on the stated rate of interest and
reflects the estimated market interest rate for certain Euro Disney borrowings as of the time that they were modified during the 2005 restructuring. Other adjustments to the stated interest rate such as purchase accounting adjustments and debt
issuance costs did not have a material impact on the overall effective interest rate.          
     Commercial Paper       At October 3, 2009, the Company did not have commercial paper debt outstanding. The Company had bank facilities totaling $4.5 billion to support its commercial paper borrowings, with half of the
facilities scheduled to expire in February 2010 and the other half in February 2011. These bank facilities allow for borrowings at LIBOR-based rates plus a spread, which depends on the Company s public debt rating and can range from 0.175% to
0.75%. The Company also has the ability to issue up to $800 million of letters of credit under the facility expiring in 2011, which if utilized, reduces available borrowing under this facility. As of October 3, 2009, $326 million of letters of
credit had been issued, of which $237 million was issued under this facility, leaving total available borrowing capacity of nearly $4.2 billion under these bank facilities. The Company s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant,
relating to interest coverage, which the Company met on October 3, 2009 by a significant margin. The Company s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, including Euro Disney and Hong Kong Disneyland, from any
representations, covenants, or events of default. As of October 3, 2009, the Company had not borrowed against the facilities.       Shelf
Registration Statement       At October 3, 2009, the Company had a shelf registration statement which allows the Company to
issue various types of debt instruments, such as fixed or floating rate notes, U.S. dollar or foreign currency denominated notes, redeemable notes, global notes, and dual currency or other indexed notes. Issuances under the shelf registration will
require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. Our ability to issue debt is subject to market conditions and other factors impacting our borrowing capacity.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

    U.S. Medium-Term Note Program       At October 3, 2009, the total debt outstanding under U.S. medium-term note programs was $7.6 billion. The maturities of current
outstanding borrowings range from 1 to 84 years and stated interest rates range from 0% to 7.55%.       European Medium-Term Note Program  
     At October 3, 2009, the Company had a European medium-term note program for the issuance of various types of debt
instruments such as fixed or floating rate notes, U.S. dollar or foreign currency denominated notes, redeemable notes and index linked or dual currency notes. The size of the program is $4 billion. The remaining capacity under the program is $3.7
billion, subject to market conditions and other factors impacting our borrowing capacity. The remaining capacity under the program replenishes as outstanding debt under the program matures. At October 3, 2009, the total debt outstanding under
the program was $347 million. The maturities of outstanding borrowings range from 1 to 4 years, and stated interest rates range from 0.85% to 4.90%. The Company has outstanding borrowings under the program denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese
Yen (JPY).       Other Foreign Currency Denominated Debt       In connection with the acquisition of Club Penguin Entertainment, Inc. in July 2007, the Company executed a credit agreement denominated in Canadian (CAD) dollars and borrowed CAD$328 million ($303
million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates). The loan bears interest at CAD LIBOR plus 0.225% (0.72% at October 3, 2009) and matures in 2013.      In July 2008, the Company executed a loan agreement denominated in JPY and borrowed JPY54 billion ($601 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates). The loan bears interest at Japanese LIBOR plus
0.42% (0.77% at October 3, 2009) and matures in 2013.       Capital Cities/ABC Debt       In connection with the Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. acquisition in 1996, the Company assumed various debt previously issued by Capital
Cities/ABC, Inc. At October 3, 2009, the outstanding balance was $116 million, matures in 2021 and has a stated interest rate of 8.75%.       Film Financing       In August 2005, the Company entered into a film financing arrangement with a group of investors
to fund up to approximately $500 million for 40% of the production and marketing costs of a slate of up to thirty-two live-action films, excluding certain titles such as  The Chronicles of Narnia  series and, in general, sequels to previous
films (including the  Pirates of the Caribbean  sequels) not included in the slate, in return for approximately 40% of the future net cash flows generated by these films. By entering into this transaction, the Company is able to share the risks
and rewards of the performance of its live-action film production and distribution activity with outside investors. As of October 3, 2009, the investors have participated in the funding of thirty-two films. The cumulative investment in the
slate by the investors, net of the cash flows generated by the slate that are returned to the investors, is classified as borrowings. Interest expense recognized from these borrowings is variable and is determined using the effective interest method
based on the projected profitability of the film slate.      The last film of the slate was completed in fiscal 2009. The Company
has the option at 5, 10 and 15 years from inception of the film financing arrangement to buy the investors  remaining interest in the slate at a price that is based on the then remaining projected future cash flows that the investors would
receive from the slate. As of October 3, 2009, borrowings under this arrangement totaled $350 million.       Euro Disney Borrowings  

86   

Table of Contents  

    Euro Disney   Caisse des D p ts et Consignations (CDC) loans. 
Pursuant to Euro Disney s original financing and the terms of a 1994 financial restructuring, Euro Disney borrowed funds from the CDC. As of October 3, 2009, these borrowings consisted of approximately  240 million ($349 million
at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) of senior debt and  276 million ($400 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) of subordinated debt. The senior debt is collateralized primarily by the Disneyland Park, certain hotels, and
land assets of Disneyland Paris with a net book value of approximately  1.3 billion ($1.9 billion at October 3, 2009 exchange rates), whereas the subordinated debt is unsecured. Interest on the senior and subordinated debt is payable
semiannually. CDC loans of  473 million ($686 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.15%. The remaining CDC loans of  43 million ($63 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates)
bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.15%. The loans mature from fiscal year 2010 to fiscal year 2024.      Euro Disney also executed
a credit agreement with the CDC to finance a portion of the construction costs of Walt Disney Studios Park. As of October 3, 2009, approximately  503 million ($731 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) of subordinated loans
were outstanding under this agreement. The loans bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.15% per annum. The loans mature between fiscal years 2015 and 2028.      Pursuant to the 2005 Financial Restructuring, the CDC agreed to conditionally defer and convert to subordinated long-term borrowings, if operating results do not achieve specified levels, interest
payments up to a maximum amount of  20 million ($29 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) per year for fiscal year 2005 through fiscal year 2012 and  23 million ($33 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) for
each of the fiscal years 2013 and 2014. Euro Disney has deferred  20 million of interest originally payable for each of fiscal year 2005 and 2006 as well as  7 million of accrued interest (collectively  47 million). Euro
Disney did not defer any CDC interest for fiscal years 2007 and 2008. Euro Disney deferred  15 million ($22 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) of interest in fiscal 2009 and will defer the remaining  5 million ($7
million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. This deferral is subject to third party confirmation of Euro Disney s operating results.       Euro Disney   Credit facilities and other.  Pursuant to Euro Disney s original financing with a syndicate of international
banks and the terms of a 1994 financial restructuring, Euro Disney borrowed funds which are collateralized primarily by the Disneyland Park, the hotels, and land assets of Disneyland Paris with a net book value of approximately  1.3 billion
($1.9 billion at October 3, 2009 exchange rates). At October 3, 2009, the total balance outstanding was  249 million ($362 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rate). The loans mature between fiscal years 2010 and 2013.
      Euro Disney   Other advances.  Advances of  331 million ($481 million at October 3, 2009 exchange
rates) are collateralized by certain hotel assets and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.0%. The remaining advances of  15 million ($21 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rate) are collateralized by certain hotel assets and bear
interest at EURIBOR plus 3% (3.75% at October 3, 2009). The advances are expected to mature between fiscal years 2010 and 2017.      Euro Disney has covenants under its debt agreements that limit its investment and financing activities and require it to meet certain annual financial performance covenants. Subject to final third-party review as provided in its debt
agreements, Euro Disney believes that it has complied with its financial performance covenants for fiscal year 2009.       
     Hong Kong Disneyland   Senior loans.  At the beginning of fiscal 2009, the
Company entered into a term loan and revolving credit facility agreement with Hong Kong Disneyland pursuant to which Hong Kong Disneyland borrowed HK$2.3 billion (approximately $292 million) under a term loan and HK$700 million (approximately $90
million) under
        
   87   

Table of Contents  

a HK$1.0 billion ($129 million) revolving credit facility. These funds were used to repay Hong Kong Disneyland s commercial term loan and revolving credit facility along with related accrued
interest. All outstanding amounts under this term loan and revolving credit facility to Hong Kong Disneyland were subsequently converted to equity (see Hong Kong Disneyland capital realignment plan below) and an undrawn revolving facility of HK$300
million (approximately $39 million) remained in place as of October 3, 2009.       Hong Kong Disneyland   Other
borrowings.  Hong Kong Disneyland has an unsecured loan facility of HK$4.1 billion ($524 million at October 3, 2009 exchange rates) from the HKSAR that is scheduled to mature on dates through September 12, 2030. The interest rate on
this loan is subject to biannual revisions, but is capped at an annual rate of 6.75% (until March 12, 2014), 7.625% (until March 12, 2022) and 8.50% (until September 12, 2030). As of October 3, 2009, the rate on the loans was
3.34%.       Hong Kong Disneyland Capital Realignment Plan       In July 2009, the Company entered into a capital realignment and expansion plan (the Plan) for Hong Kong Disneyland with the HKSAR. Pursuant to the Plan, the Company converted its $354 million term and
revolving credit facility loan to Hong Kong Disneyland into equity during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This was accompanied by conversion of an equal amount of the HKSAR loan to Hong Kong Disneyland into equity. See Note 7 for further details
of the Plan.      Total borrowings excluding market value adjustments, have the following scheduled maturities:       
    The Company capitalizes interest on assets constructed for its parks, resorts, and
other property and on theatrical productions. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, total interest capitalized was $57 million, $62 million, and $37 million, respectively. Interest expense, net of capitalized interest, for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $588 million,
$712 million and $746 million.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

The valuation allowance principally relates to a $328 million deferred tax asset for
the minority interest share of operating losses at Euro Disney. The ultimate utilization of the minority interest share of the net operating losses, which have an indefinite carryforward period, would not have an impact on the Company's
consolidated net income as any income tax benefit would be offset by a charge to minority interest in the income statement.      As of October 3, 2009, the Company had undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries of approximately $124 million, for which deferred taxes have not been provided. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings for the foreseeable
future. If these amounts were distributed to the United States, in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities on these
earnings is not practicable because such liability, if any, is dependent on circumstances existing if and when remittance was to occur.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of the effective income tax rate to the federal rate is as follows:
      
    The  American Jobs Creation Act of 2004  made a number of changes to the income
tax laws including the creation of a deduction for qualifying domestic production activities. The deduction equals three percent of qualifying net income for fiscal 2007, six percent for fiscal 2008 through 2010, and nine percent for fiscal 2011 and
thereafter. Our tax provisions for fiscal years 2009, 2008, and 2007 reflect benefits of $100 million, $97 million and $41 million, respectively, resulting from this deduction.      The Company adopted new accounting guidance for income taxes at the beginning of fiscal year 2008. See Note 2 for the impact of adopting
this guidance.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding the related
accrual for interest, is as follows:       
    The year end 2009 and 2008 balances include $367 million and $353 million,
respectively, that if recognized, would reduce our income tax expense and effective tax rate after giving effect to offsetting benefits from other tax jurisdictions.      As of year end 2009 and 2008, the Company had $142 million and $127 million, respectively, in accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits. During 2009 and 2008, the Company accrued additional
interest of $27 million and $47 million, respectively, and recorded reductions in accrued interest of $12 million and $57 million, respectively, as a result of audit settlements and other prior-year adjustments. The Company s policy is to
report interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense.      During the current year, the Internal Revenue Service
commenced a limited issue focused examination with respect to the Company s federal income tax returns filed for its fiscal years 2005 through 2007. The Company is also subject to state and local and foreign tax audits. In the current year, the
California examination of fiscal years 2004 and 2005 was completed. The Company is no longer subject to examination in any of its major state or foreign tax jurisdictions for years prior to 2002.      In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits could change due to payments for or resolution of
open tax matters for post-2002 years. These resolutions and payments would reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $109 million.      In fiscal 2009, income tax benefits attributable to equity-based compensation transactions were less than the amounts recorded based on grant date fair value. Accordingly, a shortfall of $26 million was charged to shareholders  equity.
In fiscal years 2008 and 2007, income tax benefits attributable to equity-based compensation transactions exceeded amounts recorded at grant date and accordingly were credited to shareholders  equity and totaled $45 million and $123 million,
respectively .         
   90   

Table of Contents  

11   
        Pension and Other Benefit Programs              The Company maintains pension and postretirement medical benefit plans covering most of its
employees not covered by union or industry-wide plans. Employees hired after January 1, 1994 and employees generally hired after January 1, 1987 for certain of our media businesses are not eligible for postretirement medical benefits. With
respect to its qualified defined benefit pension plans, the Company s policy is to fund, at a minimum, the amount necessary on an actuarial basis to provide for benefits in accordance with the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA). Pension benefits are generally based on years of service and/or compensation.      The Company adopted new accounting guidance on retirement benefits that requires measurement of plan funded status as of the end of the fiscal year. Previously, the measurement date for the plans was
June 30. Upon adoption, the Company remeasured plan assets and benefit obligations at the end of fiscal 2008 which resulted in a reduction of $35 million to retained earnings and a $100 million benefit to accumulated other comprehensive income
at the beginning of fiscal 2009. Net periodic benefit cost for fiscal 2009 was based on this remeasurement of plan assets and benefit obligations. The amounts in the tables below for fiscal 2009 reflect an October 3, 2009 measurement date
whereas the amounts for fiscal 2008 reflect the June 30, 2008 measurement date.      The following chart summarizes the
benefit obligations, assets, funded status and balance sheet impacts associated with the pension and postretirement medical benefit plans based upon the actuarial valuations prepared as of October 3, 2009 and June 30, 2008 (the Plan Measurement
Dates).       
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

   The components of net periodic benefit cost and key assumptions are as follows:   
   
    Net periodic benefit cost is based on assumptions determined at the prior-year end
measurement date.      Accumulated other comprehensive loss, before tax, as of October 3, 2009 consists of the following
amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost:       
    Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, before tax, as of
October 3, 2009 that are expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost during fiscal 2010 are:       
     Plan Funded Status       At October 3, 2009, the Company had pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations exceeding the fair value of plan assets. The
projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $6.3 billion, $5.7 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively, as
of October 3, 2009 and $397 million, $332 million and $0 million as of September 27, 2008, respectively.      For
pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair value of plan assets were $6.3 billion and $4.2 billion, respectively, as of October 3, 2009 and $3.9 billion and
$3.4 billion as of September 27, 2008, respectively.         
   92   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s total accumulated pension benefit obligations at October 3, 2009 and
September 27, 2008 were $6.4 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively, of which 97% for both years was vested.      The
accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets for postretirement medical plans with accumulated postretirement medical benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $1.2 billion and $297 million,
respectively, at October 3, 2009 and $1.0 billion and $351 million, respectively, at September 27, 2008.       Plan Assets 
     A significant portion of the assets of the Company s defined benefit plans are managed on a commingled basis in a third
party master trust. The investment policy and allocation of the assets in the master trust were approved by the Company s Investment and Administrative Committee which has oversight responsibility for the Company s retirement plans. The
investment policy ranges for the major asset classes are as follows:       
    Alternative investments principally include venture capital, private equity and real
estate partnerships.      The Company s defined benefit plans asset mix (including assets held outside of the master trust)
at the Plan Measurement Dates for each fiscal year end is as follows:       
     
     Plan Contributions       During fiscal 2009, the Company made contributions to its pension and postretirement medical plans totaling $473 million, which included
discretionary contributions above the minimum requirements for pension plans. The Company expects pension and postretirement medical plan contributions in fiscal 2010 to range from $350 million to $450 million which is expected to include
discretionary contributions above the minimum requirements. Final minimum funding requirements for fiscal 2010 will be determined based on our January 1, 2010 funding actuarial valuation which will be available late fiscal 2010.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments       The following table presents estimated future benefit payments for the next ten fiscal years:       

(1)   
        Estimated future
benefit payments are net of expected Medicare subsidy receipts of $68 million.            
   93   

Table of Contents  

    Assumptions       Actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, long-term rate of return on plan assets and the healthcare cost trend rate, have a significant effect on the amounts reported for net periodic benefit
cost as well as the related benefit obligations.       Discount Rate    The assumed discount rate for pension and
postretirement medical plans reflects the market rates for high-quality corporate bonds currently available. The Company s discount rate was determined by considering the average of pension yield curves constructed of a large population of high
quality corporate bonds. The resulting discount rate reflects the matching of plan liability cash flows to the yield curves.       Long-term rate of return on plan assets    The long-term rate of return on plan assets represents an estimate of long-term returns on an investment portfolio consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative
investments. When determining the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the Company considers long-term rates of return on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which the Company expects the pension funds to be invested. The
following long-term rates of return by asset class were considered in setting the long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption:       
     Healthcare cost trend rate    The Company reviews external data and its
own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates for the postretirement medical benefit plans. For the 2009 actuarial valuation, we assumed an 8.5% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered
healthcare claims with the rate decreasing in even increments over ten years until reaching 5.0%.       Sensitivity    A
one percentage point (ppt) change in the key assumptions would have had the following effects on the projected benefit obligations as of October 3, 2009 and on cost for fiscal 2010:       

Pension and Postretirement Medical Plans  
        
  Postretirement Medical Plans   

Discount Rate  
        
  Expected Long-Term Rate of Return On Assets  
        
  Assumed Healthcare Cost Trend Rate   
 
    Increase/(decrease)   
        
  Net Periodic Pension and Postretirement Medical Cost  
        
  Projected Benefit Obligations  
        
  Net Periodic Pension and Postretirement Cost  
        
  Net Periodic Postretirement Medical Cost  
        
  Projected Benefit Obligations   
 
    1 ppt decrease   
        
    $  
          169       
        
    $  
          1,328       
        
    $  
          57       
        
  (24)      
        
      (175)       
 
    1 ppt increase   

(149)      

(1,140)      

(57)      
        
  38       
        
  218        
     Multi-employer Plans       The Company participates in various multi-employer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the
contributions to these plans, which are expensed as incurred, were $52 million, $56 million and $54 million, respectively.       Defined
Contribution Plans       The Company has savings and investment plans that allow eligible employees to allocate up to 20% of
their salary through payroll deductions depending on the plan in which the employee participates. The Company matches 50% of the employee s pre-tax contribution up to plan limits. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, the costs of these plans were $51
million, $52 million and $42 million, respectively.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

12   
        Shareholders  Equity     
        As of the filing date of this report, the Board of Directors had not yet declared a dividend related to
fiscal 2009. The Company paid a $648 million dividend ($0.35 per share) during the second quarter of fiscal 2009 related to fiscal 2008. The Company paid a $664 million dividend ($0.35 per share) during the second quarter of fiscal 2008 related to
fiscal 2007. The Company paid a $637 million dividend ($0.31 per share) during the second quarter of fiscal 2007 related to fiscal 2006.      During fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Disney common stock for $138 million. During fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased 139 million shares of Disney common stock for
$4.5 billion. During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased 202 million shares of Disney common stock for $6.9 billion. On May 1, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company increased the share repurchase authorization to a total of
400 million shares. As of October 3, 2009, the Company had remaining authorization in place to repurchase 179 million additional shares. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.      In April 2008, the Company redeemed $1.3 billion of convertible senior notes. Pursuant to the redemption, substantially all of the notes
were converted into 45 million shares of the Company s common stock.      The par value of the Company s
outstanding common stock totaled approximately $26 million.      The Company also has 1.0 billion shares of Internet Group stock
at $.01 par value authorized. No shares are issued and outstanding.      Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss), net of tax   (1)   , is as follows:   

(1)     
    Accumulated other comprehensive income(loss) and components of other comprehensive income(loss) are recorded net of tax using a 37% estimated statutory
tax rate.          

13   
        Equity-Based Compensation     
        Under various plans, the Company may grant stock options and other equity-based awards to executive,
management, and creative personnel. The Company s approach to long-term incentive compensation contemplates awards of stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs). Certain RSUs awarded to senior executives vest based upon the achievement of
market and/or performance conditions (Performance RSUs).      Stock options are generally granted at exercise prices equal to or
exceeding the market price at the date of grant. Effective in January 2003, options became exercisable ratably over a four-year period from the grant date, while options granted prior to January 2003 generally vest ratably over five years. Effective
in the second quarter of 2005, options granted generally expire seven years after the grant date, while options granted prior to the second quarter of 2005 generally expire ten years after the grant date. At the discretion of the Compensation
Committee of the Company s Board of Directors, options can occasionally extend up to 15 years after date of grant. Effective in January 2009, RSUs (excluding Performance RSUs) vest ratably over a four-year period from the date of grant, while
RSUs granted prior to January 2009 and Performance RSUs generally vest 50% on each of the second and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. Stock options and RSUs are generally forfeited by employees who terminate prior to vesting. Shares available
for future option and RSU grants at October 3, 2009 totaled 83 million. Starting March 2009 for our primary plan, each share granted subject to a stock option award reduces the number of shares available by one share while each share granted
subject to a RSU award reduces the number of shares available by two shares. The Company satisfies stock option exercises and vesting of RSUs with newly issued shares.       
  
   95   

Table of Contents  

   Each year, during the second quarter, the Company awards stock options and restricted stock
units to a broad-based group of management and creative personnel (the Annual Grant). The fair value of options is estimated based on the binomial valuation model. The binomial valuation model takes into account variables such as volatility,
dividend yield, and the risk-free interest rate. The binomial valuation model also considers the expected exercise multiple (the multiple of exercise price to grant price at which exercises are expected to occur on average) and the termination rate
(the probability of a vested option being cancelled due to the termination of the option holder) in computing the value of the option.      In fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, the weighted average assumptions used in the option-valuation model were as follows:       
    Although the initial fair value of stock options is not adjusted after the grant
date, changes in the Company s assumptions may change the value of, and therefore the expense related to, future stock option grants. The assumptions that cause the greatest variation in fair value in the binomial valuation model are the
expected volatility and expected exercise multiple. Increases or decreases in either the expected volatility or expected exercise multiple will cause the binomial option value to increase or decrease, respectively.      The volatility assumption considers both historical and implied volatility and may be impacted by the Company s performance as well as
changes in economic and market conditions.      Compensation expense for RSUs (excluding Performance RSUs) and stock options is
recognized ratably over the vesting period of the award. Compensation expense for RSUs is based upon the market price of the shares underlying the awards on the grant date. Compensation expense for Performance RSUs reflects the estimated probability
that the market and/or performance conditions will be met and is recognized ratably over the service period of the award.      The
impact of stock options and RSUs on income for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was as follows:       

(1)     
    In anticipation of the ABC Radio transaction, the Company needed to determine whether employee equity-based compensation awards would be adjusted for
the dilutive impact of the transaction on outstanding employee awards. Certain of the Company s plans required such adjustments to be made on an equitable basis. All other plans permitted such adjustments to be made. In order to treat all
employees consistently with respect to the ABC Radio transaction (and other similar future transactions), the Company amended the plans such that all plans require equitable adjustments for such transactions. In connection with these amendments, the
Company was required to record a non-cash charge of $48 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 representing the estimated fair value of this modification with respect to vested equity-based employee compensation awards.
           
   96   

Table of Contents  

(2)     
    Equity-based compensation expense is net of capitalized equity-based compensation and includes amortization of previously capitalized equity-based
compensation costs. Capitalized equity-based compensation totaled $13 million, $55 million and $103 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         The following table summarizes information about stock option transactions (shares in millions):       
    The following tables summarize information about stock options vested and expected to
vest at October 3, 2009 (shares in millions):       

(1)   
        Number of options
expected to vest is total unvested options less estimated forfeitures.            
   97   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes information about RSU transactions (shares in millions):
      
    RSU grants include 3.0 million shares, 2.3 million shares and
1.4 million shares of Performance RSUs in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately 7.4 million shares of the unvested RSUs as of October 3, 2009 are Performance RSUs.      The weighted average grant-date fair values of options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $7.43, $8.25 and $9.27, respectively. The
total intrinsic value (market value on date of exercise less exercise price) of options exercised and RSUs vested during 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $252 million, $529 million, and $735 million, respectively. The aggregate intrinsic values of stock
options vested and expected to vest at October 3, 2009 were $306 million and $100 million, respectively.      As of
October 3, 2009, there was $315 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options and $446 million related to unvested RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years for stock
options and 1.9 years for RSUs.      Cash received from option exercises for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $119 million, $591 million
and $1.3 billion, respectively. Tax benefits realized from tax deductions associated with option exercises and RSU activity for 2009, 2008 and 2007 totaled $90 million, $183 million and $267 million, respectively.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

14   
        Detail of Certain Balance Sheet Accounts               

(1)     
    Includes unrecognized tax benefits.                   
   99   

Table of Contents  

15   
        Commitments and Contingencies               Commitments       The Company has various contractual commitments for broadcast rights for sports, feature films and other programming, aggregating approximately $21.2 billion, including approximately $0.9 billion for
available programming as of October 3, 2009, and approximately $18.0 billion related to sports programming rights, primarily NFL, college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, NBA, NASCAR, and MLB.      The Company has entered into operating leases for various real estate and equipment needs, including retail outlets and distribution centers
for consumer products, broadcast equipment, and office space for general and administrative purposes. Rental expense for the operating leases during 2009, 2008, and 2007, including common-area maintenance and contingent rentals, was $615 million,
$550 million, and $482 million, respectively.      The Company also has contractual commitments for the construction of two new
cruise ships, creative talent and employment agreements and unrecognized tax benefits. Creative talent and employment agreements include obligations to actors, producers, sports personnel, television and radio personalities, and executives.
     Contractual commitments for broadcast programming rights, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating
leases, and creative talent and other commitments totaled $28.1 billion at October 3, 2009, payable as follows:       
    The Company has non-cancelable capital leases, primarily for land and broadcast
equipment, which had gross carrying values of $402 million and $423 million at October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, respectively. Accumulated amortization related to these capital leases totaled $95 million and $114 million at
October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, respectively. Future payments under these leases as of October 3, 2009 are as follows:       
     Contractual Guarantees       The Company has guaranteed bond issuances by the Anaheim Public Authority that were used by the City of Anaheim to finance construction of
infrastructure and a public parking facility adjacent to the Disneyland Resort. Revenues from sales, occupancy and property taxes from the Disneyland Resort and non-Disney hotels are used by the City of Anaheim to repay the bonds. In the event of a
debt service shortfall, the Company will be responsible to fund
        
   100   

Table of Contents  

the shortfall. As of October 3, 2009, the remaining debt service obligation guaranteed by the Company was $373 million, of which $96 million was principal. To the extent that tax
revenues exceed the debt service payments in subsequent periods, the Company would be reimbursed for any previously funded shortfalls. To date, tax revenues have exceeded the debt service payments for Anaheim bonds.      ESPN STAR Sports, a joint-venture in which ESPN owns a 50% equity interest, has an agreement for global programming rights to International
Cricket Council Events from 2007 through 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, ESPN and the other joint-venture partner have jointly guaranteed the programming rights obligation of approximately $0.9 billion over the remaining term of the
agreement.       Accounts Receivable Risk       In light of the recent turmoil in the domestic and global economy, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectibility of our receivables have become subject to greater uncertainty than in more
stable periods.       Legal Matters        Milne and Disney Enterprises, Inc. v. Stephen Slesinger, Inc.  On November 5, 2002, Clare Milne, the granddaughter of A. A. Milne, author of the Winnie the Pooh books, and the Company s
subsidiary Disney Enterprises, Inc. (DEI) filed a complaint against Stephen Slesinger, Inc. (SSI) in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. On November 4, 2002, Ms. Milne served notices to SSI and DEI
terminating A. A. Milne s prior grant of rights to Winnie the Pooh, effective November 5, 2004, and granted all of those rights to DEI. In their lawsuit, Ms. Milne and DEI sought a declaratory judgment, under United States copyright
law, that Ms. Milne s termination notices were valid; that SSI s rights to Winnie the Pooh in the United States terminated effective November 5, 2004; that upon termination of SSI s rights in the United States, the 1983
licensing agreement that is the subject of the  Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. The Walt Disney Company  lawsuit (the  state court action ) terminated by operation of law; and that, as of November 5, 2004, SSI was entitled to no
further royalties for uses of Winnie the Pooh. SSI filed (a) an answer denying the material allegations of the complaint and (b) counterclaims seeking a declaration that (i) Ms. Milne s grant of rights to DEI is void and
unenforceable and (ii) DEI remains obligated to pay SSI royalties under the 1983 licensing agreement. The District Court ruled that Milne s termination notices were invalid. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, and on
June 26, 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied Milne s petition for a writ of certiorari. On August 1, 2003, SSI filed an amended answer and counterclaims and a third-party complaint against Harriet Hunt (heir to E. H. Shepard,
illustrator of the original Winnie the Pooh stories), who had served a notice of termination and a grant of rights similar to Ms. Milne s, and asserted counterclaims against the Company allegedly arising from the Milne and Hunt
terminations and the grant of rights to DEI for (a) unlawful and unfair business practices; and (b) breach of the 1983 licensing agreement.      On October 19, 2006, the parties stipulated to SSI's filing its Fourth Amended Answer and Counterclaims (Fourth Amended Answer) seeking (a) to invalidate the Hunt termination notice, (b) to
terminate the Company's rights vis- -vis SSI, and (c) damages in excess of two billion dollars, among other relief. That stipulation also provided that Hunt and the Company need not respond to the Fourth Amended Answer until the
conclusion of two events: the state court appeal in  Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v. The Walt Disney Company , and the trial in the District Court on the validity of the Hunt termination notice. SSI then sought to withdraw both the Fourth Amended
Answer and its stipulation, but on November 3, 2006, the District Court denied that request. SSI s motion for summary judgment on the validity of Hunt s 2002 attempt to recapture E. H. Shepard s rights was granted on
February 15, 2007, and thereafter, on March 27, 2007, the District Court dismissed as moot all claims against Hunt and three of SSI s counterclaims against the Company related to the Company s agreements with Milne and Hunt
concerning the termination and disposition of their rights. On January 3, 2008, the California Supreme Court denied SSI s petition for review in the state court action, whereupon on April 21, 2008, the Company moved for summary
judgment on all of SSI's claims in the District Court action. On June 3, 2008, the District Court ordered further briefing on the issue of whether SSI s misconduct in the state court action warrants dismissal of all of its claims in the
District Court, and then on July 29, 2008, the District Court referred the summary judgment motion to a Special Master, who rendered a sealed recommendation on March 26, 2009. On May 19, 2009, the District Court granted the
Company s motion for summary judgment and dismissed without prejudice SSI s four contract and fraud counterclaims and invited the parties to file summary judgment motions on the remaining infringement and unfair competition claims. On
September 25, 2009, the District Court granted the Company s motion for summary judgment on SSI s remaining claims and on October 21, 2009, SSI and the Company filed applications for attorneys  fees. On November 5,
2009, SSI appealed from the District Court s judgment to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

   Relatedly, on December 4, 2006, August 22,
2007, February 8, April 18, August 27 and October 31, 2008, and February 17, July 27, and November 17, 2009, SSI initiated proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO)
seeking cancellation of certain Winnie the Pooh trademark registrations and opposing applications for other Winnie the Pooh trademarks. Prior to July 27, the PTO had already suspended the then-pending proceedings on the grounds that the relief
sought is effectively duplicative of that sought in the Fourth Amended Answer. On October 8, 2009, the Company advised the PTO of the District Court s grant of summary judgment against SSI, and requested dismissal of all of SSI s
pending proceedings. Also, on April 18, October 16 and October 27, 2008 and July 28, 2009, SSI initiated actions before the Canadian Intellectual Property Office ( CIPO ) opposing applications for certain Winnie
the Pooh trademarks. On September 4, 2008, and February 12 and March 10, 2009, the Company filed answers to the actions before the CIPO, denying SSI s claims.      The Company, together with, in some instances, certain of its directors and officers, is a defendant or codefendant in various other legal
actions involving copyright, breach of contract and various other claims incident to the conduct of its businesses. Management does not expect the Company to suffer any material liability by reason of such actions.       

16   
        Fair Value Measurement       
       In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance on fair value measurements which provides a common definition
of fair value and establishes a framework to make the measurement of fair value in generally accepted accounting principles more consistent and comparable. This guidance also requires expanded disclosures to provide information about the extent to
which fair value is used to measure assets and liabilities, the methods and assumptions used to measure fair value, and the effect of fair value measures on earnings.      The Company adopted the guidance at the beginning of fiscal 2009 for fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities and fair value measurements of non-financial assets and liabilities made on
a recurring basis. In February 2008, the FASB updated the guidance, which delays the effective date for all nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities until the Company s 2010 fiscal year. The
Company does not expect the adoption of the guidance for nonrecurring fair value measurements of nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities will have a material impact on its financial statements.      Fair value is defined as the amount that would be received for selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants and requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and disclosed in the following three categories:       

Level 1   Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets          

Level 2   Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not
active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets          

Level 3   Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable
        The Company s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized in the
following table by the type of inputs applicable to the fair value measurements.       
       
   102   

Table of Contents  

(1)     
    The Company enters into master netting arrangements by counterparty with respect to certain derivative contracts. Contracts in a liability position
totaling $170 million have been netted against contracts in an asset position in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet.         The fair value of Level 2 investments is primarily determined by reference to market prices based on recent trading activity and other relevant information including pricing for similar securities as
determined by third-party pricing services.      The fair values of Level 2 derivatives, which consist of interest rate and
foreign currency hedges, are primarily determined based on the present value of future cash flows using internal models that use observable inputs such as interest rates, yield curves and foreign currency exchange rates. Counterparty credit risk,
which is mitigated by master netting agreements and collateral posting arrangements with certain counterparties, did not have a material impact on derivative fair value estimates.      Level 3 residual interests consist of our residual interests in securitized vacation ownership mortgage receivables and are valued using a
discounted cash flow model that considers estimated interest rates, discount rates, prepayment, and defaults. There were no material changes in the residual interests in fiscal 2009.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments       In addition to the financial
instruments listed above, the Company s financial instruments also include cash, cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and borrowings.      The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable approximated the carrying values. The estimated year end fair values of other financial instruments subject to fair value
disclosures, determined based on broker quotes or quoted market prices or interest rates for the same or similar instruments and the related carrying amounts are as follows:       
     Transfers of Financial Assets       In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance to expand disclosure about transfers of financial assets.      Through December 4, 2008, the Company sold mortgage receivables arising from the sales of its vacation ownership units under a facility
that expired on December 4, 2008 and was not renewed. The Company sold $17 million and $147 million of mortgage receivables during the years ended October 3, 2009, and September 27, 2008, respectively, which resulted in
gains totaling $4 million and $32 million for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.      The Company continues to service the
sold receivables and has a residual interest in those receivables. As of October 3, 2009, the outstanding principal amount for sold mortgage receivables was $399 million and the carrying value of the Company s residual interest, which is
recorded in other long-term assets, was $64 million.      The Company repurchases defaulted mortgage receivables at their
outstanding balance. The Company did not make material repurchases in the years ended October 3, 2009 or September 27, 2008. The Company generally has been able to sell the repurchased vacation ownership units for amounts that exceed the
amounts at which they were repurchased.      The Company also provides credit support for the outstanding balance of the sold
mortgage receivables which the mortgage receivable acquirer may draw on in the event of losses under the facility. During fiscal 2009, the Company amended certain terms of its agreement with the mortgage receivable acquirer including a provision for
the Company to provide support for up to 70% of the outstanding balance of sold mortgage receivables. The Company maintains a reserve for estimated credit losses related to these receivables.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

    Credit Concentrations       The Company continually monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions that are counterparties to its financial instruments and does not anticipate nonperformance by
the counterparties. In 2008, Lehman Brothers Commercial Corporation defaulted on a $91 million trade settlement. The Company is pursuing collection of this amount, but has fully reserved the amount.      The Company does not expect that it would realize a material loss, based on the fair value of its derivative financial instruments as of
October 3, 2009, in the event of nonperformance by any single derivative counterparty. The Company enters into transactions only with derivative counterparties that have a credit rating of A- or better. The Company s current policy
regarding agreements with derivative counterparties is generally to require collateral in the event credit ratings fall below A- or in the event aggregate exposures exceed limits as defined by contract. In addition, the Company limits the amount of
investment credit exposure with any one institution.      The Company does not have material cash and cash equivalent balances
with financial institutions that have a credit rating of less than A-. As of October 3, 2009, the Company s balances that exceeded 10% of cash and cash equivalents with individual financial institutions were 38% compared to 63% as of
September 27, 2008.      The Company s trade receivables and financial investments do not represent a significant
concentration of credit risk at October 3, 2009 due to the wide variety of customers and markets into which the Company s products are sold, their dispersion across geographic areas, and the diversification of the Company s portfolio
among issuers.       

17   
        Derivative Instruments       
       The Company manages its exposure to various risks relating to its ongoing business operations according to a
risk management policy. The primary risks managed with derivative instruments are interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.      The following table summarizes the gross fair value of the Company s derivative positions as of October 3, 2009:       

(1)     
    Refer to Note 16 for further information on derivative fair values and counterparty netting.          Interest Rate Risk Management       The Company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes primarily through its borrowing activities. The Company s objective is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and on the market value of
its investments and borrowings. In accordance with its policy, the Company targets its fixed-rate debt as a percentage of its net debt between a minimum and maximum percentage. The Company typically uses pay-floating and pay-fixed interest rate
swaps to facilitate its interest rate management activities.      The Company designates pay-floating interest rate swaps as fair
value hedges of fixed-rate borrowings effectively converting fixed-rate borrowings to variable rate borrowings indexed to LIBOR. As of October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, the total notional amount of the Company s pay-floating
interest rate swaps was $1.6 billion. During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, $105 million and $68 million in gains, respectively, from mark to market adjustments on pay-floating swaps and an offsetting $105 million and $68 million in losses,
respectively, from mark to market adjustments on hedged borrowings were included in net interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income, respectively.         

   104   

Table of Contents  

   The Company designates pay-fixed interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges of interest
payments on floating-rate borrowings. Pay-fixed swaps effectively convert floating rate borrowings to fixed-rate borrowings. The unrealized gains or losses from these cash flow hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) and
recognized as the interest payments occur. The notional amount of these contracts at October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008 and the gains or losses recognized in income for the years then ended were not material.       Foreign Exchange Risk Management       The Company transacts business globally and is subject to risks associated with changing foreign currency exchange rates. The Company s objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow fluctuations associated with foreign currency
exchange rate changes enabling management to focus on core business issues and challenges.      The Company enters into option and
forward contracts that change in value as foreign currency exchange rates change to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets, liabilities, firm commitments and forecasted but not firmly committed foreign currency transactions. In
accordance with policy, the Company hedges its forecasted foreign currency transactions for periods generally not to exceed five years within an established minimum and maximum range of annual exposure. The gains and losses on these contracts offset
changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent value of the related forecasted transaction, asset, liability or firm commitment. The principal currencies hedged are the Euro, British pound, Japanese yen and Canadian dollar. Cross-currency swaps are used to
effectively convert foreign currency-denominated borrowings into U.S. dollar denominated borrowings.      The Company designates
foreign exchange forward and option contracts as cash flow hedges of firmly committed and forecasted foreign currency transactions. As of October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008, the total notional amount of the Company s net foreign
exchange cash flow hedges was $2.8 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. Mark to market gains and losses on these contracts are deferred in AOCI and are recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions occur, offsetting changes in the value of
the foreign currency transactions. The Company recognized gains of $81 million and losses of $12 million in AOCI on foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges for the years ended October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008,
respectively. Gains of $183 million and losses of $200 million were reclassified from AOCI into revenue and costs and expenses for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Gains and losses recognized related to ineffectiveness for the years ended
October 3, 2009 and September 27, 2008 were not material. Deferred losses recorded in AOCI for contracts that will mature in the next twelve months totaled $32 million.      Foreign exchange risk management contracts with respect to foreign currency assets and liabilities are not designated as hedges and do not
qualify for hedge accounting. The notional amount of these foreign exchange contracts at October 3, 2009 was $2.1 billion. For the year ended October 3, 2009, the Company recognized a net gain of $140 million in costs and expenses on these
foreign exchange contracts which generally offset the recognition of the related economic exposures.       Risk Management   Other
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedges       The Company enters into certain other risk management contracts that are not
designated as hedges and do not qualify for hedge accounting. These contracts, which include pay fixed interest rate swaps, commodity swap contracts and credit default swaps, are intended to offset economic exposures of the Company and are carried
at market value with any changes in value recorded in earnings.      The notional amount of these contracts at October 3,
2009 and September 27, 2008 was $253 million and $266 million, respectively. The gains or losses recognized in income for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008 were not material.       Contingent Features       The Company s derivative financial instruments
may require the Company to post collateral in the event that a net liability position with a counterparty exceeds limits defined by contract and varying with Disney s credit rating. If the Company s credit ratings were to fall below
investment grade, certain counterparties would have the right to terminate our derivative contracts, which could lead to a net payment to or from the Company for the aggregate net value by counterparty of our derivative contracts. The aggregate fair
value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position by counterparty on October 3, 2009 was not material.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

18   
        Restructuring and Impairment Charges              The Company recorded charges totaling $492 million during fiscal 2009 which included
impairment charges of $279 million and restructuring costs of $213 million. The most significant of the impairment charges was $142 million related to FCC radio licenses and $65 million related to our investment in UTV Group. The Company recognized
restructuring costs for severance and other related costs as a result of various ongoing organizational and cost structure initiatives across our businesses based primarily on our existing severance plans or statutory requirements. Restructuring and
impairment charges for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 consisted of impairment charges of $39 million and $26 million, respectively, related to FCC radio licenses.         
   106   

Table of Contents  

      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL SUMMARY        (In millions, except per share data)        

(1)     
    Results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 include a non-cash gain in connection with the merger of Lifetime Entertainment Services and A E
Television Networks ($0.07 per diluted share) and restructuring and impairment charges ($0.06 per diluted share). The fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 included a bad debt charge for a receivable from Lehman Brothers ($0.03 per diluted share) and an
impairment charge ($0.01 per diluted share).          

(2)   
        Results for the
third quarter of fiscal 2009 include restructuring and impairment charges ($0.01 per diluted share). The third quarter of fiscal 2008 included an accounting gain related to the acquisition of the Disney Stores North America and a gain on the sale of
movies.com (together $0.01 per diluted share) and favorable resolutions of certain prior-year income tax matters ($0.03 per diluted share)          

(3)     
    Results for the second quarter of fiscal 2009 include restructuring and impairment charges ($0.11 per diluted share)          

(4)   
        Results for the
first quarter of fiscal 2009 include a gain on the sale of our investment in two pay television services in Latin America ($0.04 per diluted share).            
   107   

<EX-10.5>
 2
 dex105.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

Employment Agreement 

Exhibit 10.5        EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT       EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
(   Agreement   ), dated as of September 1, 2009, by and between The Walt Disney Company, a Delaware corporation (the    Company   ), and Jayne Parker (   Executive   ).       W   I   T   N   E   S   S   E   T   H :      WHEREAS, Executive has been employed most recently by a subsidiary of the Company as Senior Executive Vice President, Human Resources,
Diversity and Inclusion, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts; and      WHEREAS, the Company and Executive wish to enter into this
Agreement to provide for her service to the Company;      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein
contained, the Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:      1.  Employment . Upon the terms and subject to the
conditions of this Agreement, the Company hereby employs Executive and Executive hereby accepts employment by the Company for the period commencing on September 1, 2009 and ending on August 31, 2012 (or such earlier date as shall be
determined pursuant to Paragraph 5). The period during which Executive is employed pursuant to this Agreement shall be referred to as the    Employment Period   .      2.  Position and Duties . During the Employment Period, Executive shall serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources
Officer of the Company and in such other position or positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, consistent with her position as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company, as the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company or the Board of Directors of the Company (the    Board   ) shall reasonably assign Executive from time to time. Executive shall report to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. During the Employment Period, Executive
shall devote substantially all her business time to the services required of her hereunder, and shall perform such services in a manner consonant with the duties of her position. Executive shall be subject to the terms and conditions of any
applicable policy of the Company (including, without limitation,  The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Standards of Business Conduct 
        
   1   

booklet) regarding service (including as a director) on behalf of the Company or any other organization, provided that, subject to the provisions of Paragraph 7(a), nothing herein shall preclude
Executive from ( i ) engaging in charitable activities and community affairs, and ( ii ) managing her personal investments and affairs, so long as the activities listed in subclauses (i)-(ii) do not materially interfere,
individually or in the aggregate, with the proper performance of her duties and responsibilities as the Company s Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer.      3.  Compensation .      (a)  Base Salary . Executive shall receive an annual salary of $550,000 for the first year (i.e., from September 1, 2009 through August 31, 2010) of the Employment Period. For each year
thereafter, Executive will receive an annual salary in an amount determined by the Company in its sole discretion,  provided ,  however , that none of such annual salaries shall be less than $550,000.      The amount of annual base salary currently payable under this Paragraph 3(a) shall be reduced, however, to the extent Executive elects
in accordance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the    Code   ) and the regulations and interpretations thereunder (   Section 409A   ), to defer such salary under the
terms of any deferred compensation or savings plan or arrangement maintained or established by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Executive s annual base salary payable hereunder, without reduction for any amounts deferred as described
above, is referred to herein as the    Base Salary   . The Company shall pay Executive the portion of her Base Salary not deferred at the election of Executive in accordance with its generally applicable policies for senior
executives, but not less frequently than in equal monthly installments.      (b)  Incentive Compensation .
Executive shall be given the opportunity to earn an annual incentive bonus in accordance with the annual bonus plan generally applicable to the Company s executive officers, as the same may be in effect from time to time (the    Annual
Plan   ). Executive s target annual incentive bonus opportunity under the Annual Plan during each full fiscal year during the term hereof shall be 100% of Executive s Base Salary as expected to be in effect at the end of such
fiscal year. The actual amount payable to Executive as an annual bonus under the Annual Plan shall be dependent upon the achievement of performance objectives established in accordance with the Annual Plan by the Board or the committee of the Board
responsible for administering such Annual Plan (the    Compensation Committee   ), which shall be substantially the same as the objectives established under the Annual Plan for other senior executive officers of the Company. The
preceding sentence shall not limit any power or discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company or the Compensation Committee in the administration of the Annual Plan. Accordingly, depending on
        
   2   

performance, the actual amount payable as an annual bonus to Executive under the Annual Plan may be less than, greater than or equal to the target bonus specified above. Any bonus payable
pursuant to this Paragraph 3(b) shall be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are payable to other executive officers of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Annual Plan, subject to Executive s continued employment with
the Company through the date on which such bonuses are paid.      (c)  Eligibility for Equity Awards .
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Executive shall be entitled to participate in any stock option, performance share, performance unit or other equity based long-term incentive compensation plan, program or arrangement generally made available
to senior executive officers of the Company, on substantially the same terms and conditions as generally apply to such other officers, except that the size of the awards made to Executive shall reflect Executive s position with the Company and
the Compensation Committee s evaluation of Executive s performance and competitive compensation practices      4.
 Benefits, Perquisites and Expenses .      (a)  Benefits . During the Employment Period, Executive shall
be eligible to participate in ( i ) each welfare benefit plan sponsored or maintained by the Company and made available generally to its senior officers, including, without limitation, each group life, hospitalization, medical, dental,
health, accident or disability insurance or similar plan or program of the Company, and ( ii ) each pension, profit sharing, retirement, deferred compensation or savings plan sponsored or maintained by the Company for its senior officers,
in each case, whether now existing or established hereafter, in accordance with the generally applicable provisions thereof (excluding, however, the Company s Family Income Assurance Plan).      (b)  Perquisites . During the Employment Period, Executive shall be entitled to receive such perquisites as are
generally provided to other senior officers of the Company in accordance with the then current policies and practices of the Company.      (c)  Business Expenses . The Company shall pay or reimburse Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred or paid by Executive during the Employment Period in the performance of Executive s
duties hereunder, upon presentation of expense statements or vouchers and such other information as the Company may require and in accordance with the generally applicable policies and procedures of the Company.         
   3   

(d)  Indemnification .  Indemnification . The Company shall
provide Executive with an indemnification agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (   Indemnification Agreement   ) which shall be substantially equivalent to the form of indemnification agreement
currently provided to its senior officers generally, which shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.      5.  Termination of Employment .      (a)  Early Termination of the Employment Period .
Notwithstanding Paragraph 1, the Employment Period shall end upon the earliest to occur of ( i ) Executive s death, ( ii ) a Termination due to Disability, ( iii ) a Termination for Cause, ( iv ) the
Termination Date specified in connection with any exercise by the Company of its Termination Right or ( v ) a Termination for Good Reason. If the Employment Period terminates as of a date specified under this Paragraph 5, Executive agrees
that, upon written request from the Company, she shall resign from any and all positions she holds with the Company and any of its subsidiaries and affiliates, effective immediately following receipt of such request from the Company (or at such
later date as the Company may specify).      (b)  Benefits Payable Upon Termination .      (i) In the event of Executive s death during the Employment Period or a Termination due to Disability, Executive or her
beneficiaries or legal representatives shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements, including, but not limited to, any such Unconditional Entitlements that are or become payable under any Company plan, policy, practice or program or any
contract or agreement with the Company by reason of Executive s death or Termination due to Disability.      (ii) In the event of Executive s Termination for Cause, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements.      (iii) In the event of a Termination for Good Reason or the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right, Executive shall be provided the Unconditional Entitlements and the Company shall provide
Executive the Conditional Benefits, subject to ( A ) Executive s execution of the Release, ( B ) Executive having not revoked such Release within the      seven-day revocation period permitted following delivery of such Release and ( C ) Executive s execution of the Consulting
Agreement. For Executive to become entitled to the Conditional Benefits, Executive must deliver both the executed
        
   4   

Release and the executed Consulting Agreement to the Company by no later than twenty-two (22) days following the Termination Date.      (c)  Unconditional Entitlements . For purposes of this Agreement, the    Unconditional
Entitlements    to which Executive may become entitled under Paragraph 5(b) are as follows:      (i)
 Earned Amounts . The Earned Compensation shall be paid within 30 days following the termination of Executive s employment hereunder, or if any part thereof constitutes a bonus which is subject to or conditioned upon any performance
conditions, within thirty (30) days following the determination that such conditions have been met,  provided   that  in no event shall the bonus be paid later than 90 days following her termination of employment.      (ii)  Benefits . All benefits payable to Executive under any employee benefit plans (including, without limitation any
pension plans or 401(k) plans) of the Company or any of its affiliates applicable to Executive at the time of termination of Executive s employment with the Company and all amounts and benefits (other than the Conditional Benefits) which are
vested or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under the terms of or in accordance with any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement with, the Company, at or subsequent to the date of her termination without
regard to the performance by Executive of further services or the resolution of a contingency, shall be paid or provided in accordance with and subject to the terms and provisions of such plans, it being understood that all such benefits shall be
determined on the basis of the actual date of termination of Executive s employment with the Company. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, Executive shall not be entitled to any benefits under any severance plan or policy of the
Company or any of its subsidiaries.      (iii)  Indemnities . Any right which Executive may have to claim a
defense and/or indemnity for liabilities to or claims asserted by third parties in connection with Executive s activities as an officer, director or employee of the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Indemnification
Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d) shall be unaffected by Executive s termination of employment and shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.         
   5   

(iv)  Medical Coverage . Executive shall be entitled to such
continuation of health care coverage as is required under, and in accordance with, applicable law or otherwise provided in accordance with the Company s policies. Executive shall be notified in writing of her rights to continue such coverage
after the termination of her employment pursuant to this Paragraph 5(c)(iv), provided that Executive timely complies with the conditions to continue such coverage. Executive understands and acknowledges that Executive is responsible to make all
payments required for any such continued health care coverage that Executive may choose to receive.      (v)
 Business Expenses . Executive shall be entitled to reimbursement, in accordance with the Company s policies regarding expense reimbursement as in effect from time to time, for all business expenses incurred by her prior to the termination
of her employment.      (vi)  Stock Options/RSUs . Except to the extent additional rights are provided upon
Executive s qualifying to receive the Conditional Benefits, Executive s rights with respect to any stock options and/or restricted stock units granted to her by the Company shall be governed by the terms and provisions of the plans
(including plan rules) and award agreements pursuant to which such stock options and restricted stock units were awarded, as in effect at the date Executive s employment terminates.      (d)  Conditional Benefits . For purposes of this Agreement, the    Conditional Benefits    to which
Executive may become entitled, provided she complies with the terms and conditions hereof (including the applicable agreements attached hereto), are as follows:      (i)  Remaining Salary .   As noted in paragraph 2 of the Consulting Agreement, the Company shall pay
Executive a lump sum amount equal to the Consulting Amount as compensation for her consulting services under the Consulting Agreement. If the Scheduled Expiration Date is later than the end of the Consulting Agreement Period, the Company shall also
pay Executive the Severance Amount. The Consulting Amount and the Severance Amount shall be paid on the date that is six months and one day after the Termination Date (or upon Executive s death, if earlier).      (ii)  Stock Options . All of Executive s Continuing Unvested Options shall become exercisable in accordance with
the applicable Original Stock Option Award Documents, on the same basis as such options would have become vested and exercisable if Executive had remained employed under this Agreement through the Scheduled Expiration Date. Once exercisable, all
Continuing Unvested Options shall
        
   6   

remain exercisable until the Stock Option Termination Date. All of Executive s Remaining Stock Options that were vested and exercisable at the Termination Date shall remain exercisable until
the Stock Option Termination Date. Notwithstanding any other term or provision hereof, any of Executive s stock options which are not vested at the Termination Date, and which are not Continuing Unvested Options, shall automatically terminate
upon the Termination Date. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all of the Remaining Stock Options shall continue to be subject to the Original Stock Option Award Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of Executive s
death prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, all Continuing Unvested Options shall vest on the date of Executive s death and all Remaining Stock Options shall be exercisable for the period following Executive s death as determined under
such Original Stock Option Award Documents on the same basis as though Executive was employed on the date of her death and regardless of when the Stock Option Termination Date occurs. However, any provisions in the Original Stock Option Award
Documents relating to disability or change in control of the Company after the Termination Date shall not be operative with respect to any Remaining Stock Options.      (iii)  RSUs . The Remaining Stock Units shall continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the Original RSU Award
Documents, regardless of Executive s termination of employment. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all such Remaining Stock Units shall be subject to, and administered in accordance with, the Original RSU Award Documents. Any of
Executive s restricted stock unit awards that have not become vested on or before the Termination Date, and that are outstanding at the Termination Date, but which are not Remaining Stock Units, shall automatically terminate on the Termination
Date. Notwithstanding any term or provision of the Original RSU Award Documents:      (A) any provisions in such
Original RSU Award Documents relating to disability shall not be applicable to any such Remaining Stock Units after the Termination Date;      (B) for so long as this Agreement shall be in effect (that is, regardless of whether the Termination Right has been exercised or a Termination for Good Reason shall have occurred), any terms in any of the
Original RSU Award Documents relating to a change in control of the Company shall not be operative unless the event that constitutes a change in control of the Company also constitutes a  change in control event  with respect to the
Company within the meaning of Section 409A;         
   7   

(C) in the event of Executive s death after the Termination Date but
prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date, the terms and provisions of the Original RSU Award Documents shall be interpreted and applied in the same manner with respect to such Remaining Stock Units as if Executive were an active employee on the date
of her death; and      (D) to the extent that, under the Company s compensation practices and policies, any
tranche of Remaining Stock Units is subject to the achievement of performance conditions which were imposed solely because Executive was an executive officer of the Company who could have been a covered employee within the meaning of
Section 162(m) at the time payment in respect of such award was expected to be made (the    Applicable 162(m) Criteria   ) and such Applicable 162(m) Criteria relate, in whole or in part, to any performance period continuing
after the end of the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs, such Applicable 162(m) Criteria shall be waived as of the Termination Date with respect to such tranche of the Remaining Stock Units; provided, however, that this
Paragraph 5(d)(iii)(D) shall not be applicable if and to the extent, in the reasonable opinion of tax counsel to the Company, the presence of such provision would cause any stock units intended to be qualified as other performance based
compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code to fail to be so qualified at any time prior to Executive s Termination Date.      (iv)  Pro-Rated Current Year Bonus . A pro rata annual bonus for the year in which the Termination Date occurs, determined on the basis of an assumed full-year target bonus determined pursuant to
Section 3(b) and the number of days in the applicable fiscal year occurring on or before the Termination Date. Such pro-rata current year bonus shall be paid no later than the later of ( i ) two and a half months after the end of
Executive s tax year in which the Termination Date occurs and ( ii ) two and a half months after the end of the Company s tax year in which the Termination Date occurs.      (v)  Additional Distribution Rules in Respect of Conditional Benefits . The following additional rules shall apply with
respect to distribution of the payments and benefits, if any, to be provided to Executive under Paragraph 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv):      (A) It is intended that each installment of the payments and benefits provided under Paragraphs 5(d)(i), (iii) and (iv) shall
        
   8   

be treated as a separate  payment  for purposes of Section 409A. Neither the Company nor Executive shall have the right to accelerate or defer the delivery of any such payments or
benefits except to the extent specifically permitted or required by Section 409A;      (B) Distribution in
respect of any tranche of Remaining Stock Units to which Paragraph 5(b)(iii)(D) applies shall be made within 90 days following the later of the date that ( i ) the service conditions that had originally been specified for such tranche of
Remaining Stock Units under the applicable Original RSU Award Documents would otherwise have been satisfied (had Executive continued to be employed) and ( ii ) the last performance measurement period applicable in respect of such tranche
of Remaining Stock Units under the applicable Original RSU Award Documents would otherwise have expired;      (C)
Each installment of the payments and benefits due under Paragraph 5(d)(i) and (iii) that would, absent this subsection, be paid within the six-month period following Executive s  separation from service  (within the meaning of
Section 409A of the Code and as provided in Paragraph 5(g) hereof) from the Company shall not be paid until the date that is six months and one day after such separation from service (or, if earlier, Executive s death), with any such
installments that are required to be delayed being accumulated during the six-month period and paid in a lump sum on the date that is six months and one day following Executive s separation from service; provided, however, that the preceding
provisions of this sentence shall not apply to any installment of payments and benefits if and to the maximum extent that that such installment is deemed to be paid under a separation pay plan that does not provide for a deferral of compensation by
reason of the application of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) (relating to separation pay upon an involuntary separation from service). (Any installments that qualify for the exception under Treasury Regulation
Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(iii) must be paid no later than the last day of Executive s second taxable year following the taxable year of Executive s in which the separation from service occurs.) Any subsequent installments that would be
payable more than six months following Executive s separation from service shall be paid in accordance with the dates and terms set forth herein.         
   9   

(e)  Definitions . For purposes of this Paragraph 5, the following
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below:         Consulting Agreement    means the consulting
agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.         Consulting Agreement Period    means the period
established under the Consulting Agreement during which Executive shall be required to provide consulting services to the Company.         Consulting Amount    means a lump sum amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by Executive had her employment under this Agreement continued after the Termination Date and through the
earlier to occur of ( i ) the end of the Consulting Agreement Period or ( ii ) any earlier date that the Consulting Agreement terminates for any reason whatsoever.           Continuing Unvested Options      means any of Executive s stock options that were not vested and
exercisable at the Termination Date, but that would have become vested and exercisable on or prior to the Latest Stock Option Vesting Date had Executive continued to be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date.         Earned Compensation    means the sum of ( a ) any Base Salary earned, but unpaid, for services rendered to
the Company on or prior to the date on which the Employment Period ends pursuant to Paragraph 5(a) (but excluding any salary and interest accrued thereon payment of which has been deferred) and ( b ) if Executive s employment
terminates due to Executive s death or in a Termination due to Disability or a Termination for Good Reason or due to the Company s exercise of its Termination Right, in any case, after the end of a fiscal year, but before the annual
incentive compensation payable for services rendered in that fiscal year has been paid, the annual incentive compensation that would have been payable to Executive for such completed fiscal year in accordance with Paragraph 3(b).           Latest Stock Option Vesting Date      means the date which is three months after the Scheduled Expiration
Date.         Original Stock Option Award Documents    means, with respect to any Remaining Stock Option, the
terms and provisions of the award agreement and plan pursuant to which such Remaining Stock Option was granted, each as in effect on the Termination Date.         
   10   

Original RSU Award Documents      means, with respect to
any tranche of Remaining Stock Units, the terms and provisions of the award agreement related to and the plan governing, such tranche of Remaining Stock Units, each as in effect on the Termination Date.           Release      means the General Release in the form set forth in Exhibit C attached hereto.
        Remaining Stock Options    means any of Executive s stock options which are
( i ) vested at the Termination Date or ( ii ) Continuing Unvested Options.           Remaining
Stock Units    means any of Executive s restricted stock units outstanding at the Termination Date (whether or not subject to performance conditions) that, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions, would
have become vested on or prior to the Scheduled Expiration Date had Executive continued to be employed by the Company through the Scheduled Expiration Date .          Scheduled Expiration Date    means August 31, 2012.         Severance Amount    means an amount equal to the aggregate Base Salary which would have been earned by Executive under this Agreement (including any scheduled increase therein) for the period commencing on the day
after termination of the Consulting Agreement Period and ending on the Scheduled Expiration Date;  provided   that  if the Company terminates the Consulting Agreement due to Executive s material breach of the terms thereof, the
Severance Amount shall be reduced to zero.         Stock Option Termination Date    means with respect to any
Remaining Stock Option the earlier to occur of ( i ) the date which is three months after the Scheduled Expiration Date and ( ii ) the expiration of the stated term of such award.         Termination for Cause    means a termination of Executive s employment by the Company due to
( i ) gross negligence, ( ii ) gross misconduct, ( iii ) willful nonfeasance or ( iv ) willful material breach of this Agreement, which termination may be effected (A) immediately upon notice from the
Company if the Company shall reasonably and in good faith determine that the conduct or cause specified in such notice is not curable (it being understood that such notice shall describe in reasonable detail the conduct or cause giving rise to such
notice and shall state the reason(s) why the Company has determined that such conduct or cause is not curable); or (B) upon twenty business days notice from the Company, if the Company shall reasonably and in good faith determine that the
conduct or cause specified in such notice is curable (it being understood that such notice
        
   11   

shall describe in reasonable detail the conduct or cause giving rise to such notice and shall state the reason(s) why the Company has determined that such conduct or cause is curable and what
steps the Company believes should or could be taken to cure such conduct or cause); provided that the Company shall not be entitled to terminate Executive s employment for Cause, if Executive has, within five business days after the date notice
in accordance with subclause (B) has been given personally to Executive or otherwise has been received by Executive, commenced in good faith to cure the conduct or cause specified in such notice and completes such cure within 20 business days
following the date such notice was received.         Termination Date    means the earlier to occur of
( i ) the date the Company specifies in writing to Executive in connection with the exercise of its Termination Right or ( ii ) the date Executive specifies in writing to the Company in connection with any notice to effect a
Termination for Good Reason.         Termination due to Disability    means a termination of Executive s
employment by the Company because Executive has been incapable, after reasonable accommodation, of substantially fulfilling the positions, duties, responsibilities and obligations set forth in this Agreement because of physical, mental or emotional
incapacity resulting from injury, sickness or disease for a period of ( i ) six consecutive months or ( ii ) an aggregate of nine months (whether or not consecutive) in any twelve month period. Any question as to the existence,
extent or potentiality of Executive s disability shall be determined by a qualified physician selected by the Company with the consent of Executive, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Executive or her legal representatives or any
adult member of her immediate family shall have the right to present to such physician such information and arguments as to Executive s disability as he, she or they deem appropriate, including the opinion of Executive s personal
physician.         Termination for Good Reason    means a termination of Executive s employment by
Executive within 30 days of the Company s failure to cure, in accordance with the procedures set forth below, any of the following events: ( i ) a reduction in any of Executive s compensation rights hereunder (that is, Base
Salary and target bonus opportunity specified in Paragraph 3(b)), it being understood that the failure of Executive to receive an actual bonus for any fiscal year equal to or greater than the target bonus opportunity for such year is not a
reduction in such compensation rights, but a failure to pay Base Salary in accordance with the terms hereof would be a reduction in such compensation rights; ( ii ) the removal of her by the Company from the position of Executive Vice
        
   12   

President and Chief Human Resources Officer; ( iii ) a material reduction in Executive s duties and responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to such reduction;
( v ) the assignment to Executive of duties that are materially inconsistent with her position or duties or that materially impair Executive s ability to function as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer or any
other position in which she is then serving; ( vi ) the relocation of Executive s principal office to a location that is more than 50 miles outside of the greater Los Angeles area; or ( vii ) a material breach of any
material provision of this Agreement by the Company. In addition, following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the    2005 Stock Plan   ) and the Amended and
Restated 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (the    1995 Stock Plan   )), any occurrence that would constitute a Triggering Event for purposes of Section 11 of the 2005 Stock Plan and the 1995 Stock Plan (the
   Plans   ), as such Plans may be amended from time to time, shall also constitute an event upon which Executive may effect a Termination for Good Reason in accordance with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
termination shall not be treated as a Termination for Good Reason ( A ) if Executive shall have consented in writing to the occurrence of the event giving rise to the claim of Termination for Good Reason, or ( B ) unless
Executive shall have delivered a written notice to the Chief Executive Officer or Board within three months of her having actual knowledge of the occurrence of one of such events stating that she intends to terminate her employment for Good Reason
and specifying the factual basis for such termination, and such event, if capable of being cured, shall not have been cured within 30 days of the receipt of such notice.         Termination Right    means the right of the Company, in its sole, absolute and unfettered discretion, to terminate Executive s employment under this Agreement for any reason or
no reason whatsoever. For the avoidance of doubt, any Termination for Cause effected by the Company shall not constitute the exercise of the its Termination Right.      (f)  Conflict With Plans . As permitted under the terms of the applicable Plans, the Company and Executive agree that
the definitions of Termination for Cause or Termination for Good Reason set forth in this Paragraph 5 shall apply in place of any similar definition or comparable concept applicable under either of the Plans (or any similar definition in any
successor plan), except that, in connection with a  Triggering Event  as defined in the Plans, as such Plans may be amended from time to time, the terms of the applicable plan (and not the definitions of Termination for Cause or
Termination for Good Reason set forth in this Paragraph 5) shall apply to determine Executive s rights and entitlements in respect of the awards made under any such plan (and only in respect of such awards).         
   13   

(g)  Section 409A . To the extent applicable, it is intended that
this Agreement comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent. Notwithstanding anything else contained herein to the contrary, any payment required to be made to
Executive hereunder upon her termination of employment (including any payment to this Paragraph 5) shall be made promptly after the six month anniversary of Executive s date of termination to the extent necessary to avoid imposition on
Executive of any tax penalty imposed under Section 409A of the Code. Solely for purposes of determining the time and form of payments due Executive under this Agreement (including any payments due under Paragraph 3(a)) or otherwise in
connection with her termination of employment with the Company, Executive shall not be deemed to have incurred a termination of employment unless and until she shall incur a  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A
of the Code. The parties agree, as permitted in accordance with the final regulations thereunder, a  separation from service  shall occur when Executive and the Company reasonably anticipate that Executive s level of bona fide
services for the Company (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) will permanently decrease to no more than 40 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed by Executive for the Company over the immediately preceding 36
months. The determination of whether and when a separation from service has occurred shall be made in accordance with this subparagraph and in a manner consistent with Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). To the extent that the Company and
Executive determine that any provision of this Agreement could reasonably be expected to result in Executive s being subject to the payment of interest or additional tax under Section 409A, the Company and Executive agree, to the extent
reasonably possible as determined in good faith, to amend this Agreement, retroactively, if necessary, in order to avoid the imposition of any such interest or additional tax under Section 409A. All reimbursements and in-kind benefits provided
under the Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A to the extent that such reimbursements or in-kind benefits are subject to Section 409A, including, where applicable, the requirements that
(i) any reimbursement is for expenses incurred during Executive s lifetime (or during a shorter period of time specified in this Agreement), (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during a calendar year may not affect
the expenses eligible for reimbursement in any other calendar year, (iii) the reimbursement of an eligible expense will be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the year in which the expense is incurred and (iv) the
right to reimbursement is not subject to set off or liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.         
   14   

(h)  Amendment of Existing Agreements . The parties acknowledge and
agree that to the extent that this Paragraph 5 affects any of the terms and conditions of Executive s Remaining Stock Options or Remaining Stock Units, this Agreement shall constitute an amendment of the Original Stock Option Award Documents
and Original RSU Award Documents as they pertain to Executive.      6.  Exclusive Remedy . Executive shall be under no
obligation to seek other employment or other engagement of her services. Executive acknowledges and agrees that the payments and rights provided under Paragraph 5 are fair and reasonable, and are Executive s sole and exclusive remedy, in lieu
of all other remedies at law or in equity, for termination of her employment by the Company upon exercise of its Termination Right pursuant to this Agreement or upon a Termination for Good Reason. The failure of Executive to execute and timely
deliver the Release and, if applicable, the Consulting Agreement for any reason ( i ) shall limit her rights in connection with the exercise by the Company of its Termination Right solely to the right to receive the Unconditional
Entitlements, ( ii ) shall not effect a modification of any of her commitments set forth in this Agreement (none of which are contingent upon execution of the Release by her) and ( iii ) shall not preserve or revive any rights
waived by Executive hereunder. Subject to Executive s execution and delivery of the Release without revocation thereof and execution and delivery of the Consulting Agreement, (i) the Company agrees to enter into the Release and
(ii) there shall be no offset available to the Company against any amounts due, paid or payable to her in respect of the Contingent Benefits under Paragraph 5 with respect to any compensation, remuneration or payment attributable to any
services that Executive may provide to any third party subsequent to termination of employment hereunder, whether as an employee or otherwise.      7.  Non-competition and Confidentiality .      (a)
 Non-competition . During the Employment Period, Executive shall not engage in any business, or become associated with any entity, whether as a principal, partner, employee, consultant, shareholder or otherwise (other than as a holder of not in
excess of 1% of the outstanding voting shares of any publicly traded company) that is actively engaged in any business, in any geographic area, which is in competition with a business conducted by the Company or any of its affiliates at the time of
the alleged competition.      (b)  Confidentiality . Without the prior written consent of the Company, except
( i ) as reasonably necessary in the course of carrying out her duties hereunder or ( ii ) to the extent required by an order of a court having competent jurisdiction or under subpoena from an appropriate government agency,
Executive shall not disclose any trade secrets, customer lists, drawings, designs, information regarding product development, existing theatrical projects, marketing plans, sales plans, manufacturing plans, management organization
        
   15   

information (including data and other information relating to members of the Board and management), operating policies or manuals, business plans, financial records or other financial,
commercial, business or technical information relating to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or information designated as confidential or proprietary that the Company or any of its subsidiaries may receive belonging to suppliers, customers or
others who do business with the Company or any of its subsidiaries (collectively,    Confidential Information   ) unless such Confidential Information has been previously disclosed to the public by the Company or has otherwise
become available to the public (other than by reason of Executive s breach of this Paragraph 7(b)). In addition, Executive acknowledges and agrees that she has executed or will be required to execute, the standard form of agreement, entitled
 The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies Confidentiality Agreement,  a copy of which has been previously provided to Executive.      (c)  Company Property . Promptly following Executive s termination of employment, Executive shall return to the Company all property of the Company, and all copies thereof in Executive s
possession or under her control, except that Executive may retain her personal notes, diaries, Rolodexes, calendars and correspondence of a personal nature.      (d)  Non-Solicitation of Employees . During the Employment Period and, subject to the provisions of applicable law,
during the two-year period following any termination of Executive s employment, Executive shall not, except in the course of carrying out her duties hereunder, directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries
to terminate employment with such entity, and shall not directly or indirectly, either individually or as owner, agent, employee, consultant or otherwise, knowingly employ or offer employment to any person (other than her personal assistants) who is
or was employed by the Company or a subsidiary thereof unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by such entity for a period of at least six (6) months.      (e)  Injunctive Relief with Respect to Covenants . Executive acknowledges and agrees that the covenants and obligations
of Executive with respect to noncompetition, nonsolicitation, confidentiality and the Company property relate to special, unique and extraordinary matters and that a violation of any of the terms of such covenants and obligations may cause the
Company irreparable injury for which adequate remedies are not available at law. Therefore, Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled to obtain an injunction, restraining order or such other equitable relief restraining Executive from
committing any violation of the covenants and obligations contained in this Paragraph 7. These injunctive remedies are cumulative and are in addition to any other rights and remedies the Company may have at law or in equity.         
   16   

8.  Miscellaneous .      (a)  Survival . Paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive the termination hereof, whether such termination shall be by
expiration of the Employment Period in accordance with Paragraph 1 or an early termination of the Employment Period pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof.      (b)  Binding Effect . This Agreement shall be binding on, and shall inure to the benefit of, the Company and any person or entity that succeeds to the interest of the Company (regardless of whether
such succession does or does not occur by operation of law) by reason of a merger, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company or a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. The Company further agrees that, in the
event of a sale of assets as described in the preceding sentence, it shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause such assignee or transferee to expressly assume the liabilities, obligations and duties of the Company hereunder. This Agreement
shall also inure to the benefit of Executive s heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives and beneficiaries as provided in Paragraph 8(d).      (c)  Assignment . Except as provided under Paragraph 8(b), neither this Agreement nor any of the rights or obligations
hereunder shall be assigned or delegated by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party.      (d)  Beneficiaries/References . Executive shall be entitled, to the extent permitted under any applicable law and the terms of any applicable plan, to select and change a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any compensation or
benefit payable hereunder following Executive s death by giving the Company written notice thereof. In the event of Executive s death or a judicial determination of her incompetence, reference in this Agreement to Executive shall be
deemed, where appropriate, to refer to her beneficiary, estate or other legal representative.      (e)  Entire
Agreement . This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters referred to herein; provided that this Agreement shall not alter, amend, or supercede ( i ) except as specifically
provided in Paragraph 5, any agreement that evidences the terms of any equity grant made prior to the date hereof or ( ii ) the Indemnification Agreement referenced in Paragraph 4(d). There are no promises, representations, inducements or
statements between the parties other than those that are expressly contained herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit, modify or supersede The Walt Disney Company and Associated Companies
Confidentiality Agreement executed by Executive, which shall survive regardless of the termination of this Agreement.      (f)  Representations . Executive represents that her employment hereunder and compliance by her with the terms and conditions of this Agreement
        
   17   

will not conflict with or result in the breach of any agreement to which she is a party or by which she may be bound. The Company represents that ( i ) it is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. ( ii ) it has the full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and ( iii ) the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement has been duly and validly authorized.      (g)  Authority of the Board . For
the avoidance of doubt, nothing is this Agreement shall preclude the Board from its ability to exercise any power or authority to take such actions as it is required or permitted to take as a matter of law or pursuant to the terms of the
Company s governing documents. Nothing in this Paragraph 8(g) shall be construed to modify, amend, limit or otherwise impair the rights and entitlements of Executive set forth in the other Paragraphs of this Agreement (including, without
limitation, the rights and entitlements specified in Paragraph 5).      (h)  Severability; Reformation . In
the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby. In
the event any of Paragraph 7(a), (b) or (d) is not enforceable in accordance with its terms, Executive and the Company agree that such subparagraph of such Paragraph 7 shall be reformed to make such Paragraph enforceable in a manner
which provides the Company the maximum rights permitted at law.      (i)  Waiver . Waiver by any party hereto
of any breach or default by the other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this
Agreement shall be implied from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by either party hereto to assert its or her rights hereunder on any occasion or series of occasions.      (j)  Notices . Any notice required or desired to be delivered under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
delivered personally, by courier service, by registered mail, return receipt requested, or by telecopy and shall be effective upon actual receipt when delivered or sent by telecopy and upon mailing when sent by registered mail, and shall be
addressed as follows (or to such other address as the party entitled to notice shall hereafter designate in accordance with the terms hereof):       
       
   18   

If to Executive:      To the address listed as Executive s principal residence in the Company s human resources records and to her principal place of
employment with the Company.      (k)  Amendments . No amendment to this Agreement shall be binding between
the parties unless it is in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought.      (l)
 Headings . Headings to paragraphs in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and are not intended to be part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation hereof.      (m)  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all
of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.      (n)  Withholding . Any payments provided
for herein shall be reduced by any amounts required to be withheld by the Company from time to time under applicable federal, state or local income or employment tax laws or similar statutes or other provisions of law then in effect.      (o)  Governing Law . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without reference to
principles of conflicts or choice of law under which the law of any other jurisdiction would apply.         
   19   

(p) This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Facsimiles shall also be accepted as originals and shall be binding.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer and Executive has hereunto set her hand as of the day and year first above written.       

20   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 3
 dex106.htm
 DESCRIPTION OF DIRECTORS COMPENSATION

Description of Directors Compensation 

Exhibit 10.6        Non-Management Directors Compensation        Non-Management Directors
other than the Chairman of the Board:        

Each Director will receive an annual Committee retainer of $10,000 for each Committee of which he or she is a member, payable in quarterly installments
in arrears.          

Each Committee Chair will receive an additional annual Committee Chair retainer of $15,000, payable in quarterly installments in arrears.

The value at grant of the quarterly deferred stock unit grants to each Director, beginning September 30, 2008, will be increased from $15,000 to
$21,000 ( i . e , $84,000 per year), based on the average of the high and low trading prices of the Corporation s common stock averaged over the last ten trading days of the quarter. These units will be fully vested upon crediting and
will be distributed to the Director on the second anniversary of the grant date. The units will be distributed 100% in shares of the Corporation s common stock.          

The annual option grant to each Director, beginning in 2009, will change from an option to purchase 6,000 shares of the Corporation s common stock
to a grant value of $56,000 with the number of options granted based on the fair value of the Corporation s stock options on the date of grant. The vesting of the options will change from equal installments over five years to equal installments
over four years. Beginning in 2010, the term of the options will be ten years.          

Unless the Board exempts a Director, each Director will also be required to retain at all times stock representing no less than 50% of the after-tax
value of exercised options and shares received upon distribution of deferred stock units until he or she leaves the Board.          Non-Management Chairman of the Board:        

The Chairman of the Board will receive an annual retainer of $500,000, credited quarterly in arrears in installments of $125,000 each (prorated for
partial periods of service), and payable 100% in the form of deferred stock units of the Corporation s common stock. The number of stock units credited for each full calendar quarter will be determined by dividing $125,000 by the average of the
high and low trading prices of the Corporation s common stock averaged over the last ten trading days of the quarter.          

The deferred units will be fully vested upon crediting, will be distributed 100% in shares of the Corporation s common stock in January of the
year following the year of crediting and will be subject to the retention requirement applicable to all other Directors as described above.          

The Chairman will receive no other cash retainer, meeting fees or restricted stock grants, but will continue to receive the annual stock option grant.
        The Board s determination in June 2006 that, at Mr. Jobs s request, he be excluded from receiving
compensation as a Director, is unaffected by this policy.   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY

Subsidiaries of the Company 

Exhibit 21        Subisidiaries of the Company        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     State or Region of Incorporation     
 
    ABC Cable Networks Group   
      
  California   
 
    ABC Family Worldwide, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ABC Holding Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ABC Kids Europe Holdings, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    ABC Kids SPC1, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ABC, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Buena Vista (Canada), Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Buena Vista Home Entertainment (France) S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Buena Vista Home Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista International, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista Pay Television, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Buena Vista Television   
      
  California   
 
    BV Holdings Incorporated (50% partner for EGP Company GP with BV Holdings USA, LLC)   
      
  Virgin Islands, British   
 
    BV Holdings USA, LLC (50% partner for EGP Company GP with BV Holdings Incorporated)   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BVI Television (Latin America), Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    BVS Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cable LT Holdings   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Circle Location Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Club Penguin Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Disney Consumer Products Latin America, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Disney Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Disney Magic Company Limited   
      
  England   
 
    Disney Magic Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Disney Stores Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Disney Vacation Development, Inc.   
      
  Florida   
 
    Disney Wonder Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Disney/ABC International Television, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    EDL S.N.C. Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ESPN (Europe, Middle East, Africa) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    ESPN Classic, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ESPN Enterprise, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ESPN Global Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    ESPN, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Euro Disney Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Euro Disney S.C.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Hammersmith Enterprises Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Hong Kong International Theme Parks, Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    ImageMovers Digital LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Imprint, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Family Entertainment, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jetix Europe N.V. (f/k/a Fox Kids Europe N.V.)   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Jetix Europe Properties (Luxembourg) Sarl-Zurich Branch   
      
  Switzerland   

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     State or Region of Incorporation     

Kenai Funding LP   
      
  Canada   
 
    KGO Television, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Magical Cruise Limited   
      
  England   
 
    Miramax Film Corp.   
      
  New York   
 
    Pixar   
      
  California   
 
    SoapNet, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Walt Disney Company (France) S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    The Walt Disney Company (Germany) GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    The Walt Disney Company (Southeast Asia) Pte Ltd., f/k/a Walt Disney Television (Singapore) Pte Ltd.)   
      
  Singapore   
 
    The Walt Disney Company Iberia S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    The Walt Disney Company Limited   
      
  England   
 
    Touchstone Television Productions, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TWDC (Japan) Limited   
      
  Tokyo   
 
    TWDC Italia SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    US Finance Branch of Wedco Participations (Luxembourg) S.C.A   
      
  California   
 
    Walt Disney Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Walt Disney International Finance LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Walt Disney Pictures and Television   
      
  California   
 
    Walt Disney Travel Co., Inc.   
      
  Florida   
 
    Walt Disney World Co.   
      
  Florida   
 
    Walt Disney World Hospitality   Recreation Corporation   
      
  Florida   
 
    WEDCO Holdings (Netherlands)BV   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wedco International Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wedco One   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Wedco Participations (Luxembourg) S.C.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-31012, 333-74624, 333-116952, 333-116953, 333-123516, 333-128860, 333-133840, 333-141494, 333-151033 and 333-159027), Form S-3
(No. 333-155531 and 333-148043) and Form S-4 (No. 333-162063) of The Walt Disney Company of our report dated December 2, 2009 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears
in this Form 10-K.      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Los Angeles, CA      December 2, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 6
 dex31a.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31(a)        RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION IN        ACCORDANCE WITH
SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Robert A. Iger, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Walt Disney Company (the Company), certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under
our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;      c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: December 2, 2009        

By:  

/s/ ROBERT A. IGER   

Robert A. Iger   

President and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 7
 dex31b.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31(b)        RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION IN        ACCORDANCE WITH
SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Thomas O. Staggs, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Walt Disney Company (the Company), certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under
our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
     b) designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial
reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;      c) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and      d) disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and       

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        a) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: December 2, 2009        

By:  

/s/ THOMAS O. STAGGS   

Thomas O. Staggs   

Senior Executive Vice President   

and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 8
 dex32a.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 32(a)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002*       In connection with the Annual Report of The Walt Disney Company (the Company) on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Robert A. Iger, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350,
as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

1.  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

2.  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

By:  

/s/ ROBERT A. IGER   

Robert A. Iger   

President and Chief Executive Officer   

December 2, 2009   

*  
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Walt Disney Company and will be retained by The Walt Disney Company
and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 9
 dex32b.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32(b)        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002*       In connection with the Annual Report of The Walt Disney Company (the Company) on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended October 3, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Thomas O. Staggs, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant
to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to  906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:       

1.  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and         

2.  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.

By:  

/s/ THOMAS O. STAGGS   

Thomas O. Staggs   

Senior Executive Vice President   

and Chief Financial Officer   

December 2, 2009   

*  
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to The Walt Disney Company and will be retained by The Walt Disney Company
and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.     

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 dis-20091003.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 dis-20091003.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 dis-20091003_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 dis-20091003_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 dis-20091003_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 dis-20091003_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

