<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080915_10-K_edgar_data_858877_0001193125-08-195608_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2386900</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>726291</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>58614</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1246976</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>90</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-195608.hdr.sgml : 20080915
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080915061703
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-195608
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080726
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080915
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080915

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CISCO SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000858877
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				770059951
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0728

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18225
		FILM NUMBER:		081070539

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085264000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 OPXzC6XIRm+cye21iG9LRse6xcve4bXX2NkY/KFuURbYdXYMRUu28aXZ9QEfuLse
 iZFX+9zwEtg4p19KOsw4Iw==

 0001193125-08-195608.txt : 20080915

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K        (Mark one)    
     For the fiscal year ended July 26, 2008        or        
     For the transition period from                        to
                              Commission file number 0-18225        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of Each Class:    
     
     Name of Each Exchange on which Registered     
 
    Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share   
     
  The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.         Yes         No      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer        
 
    Non-accelerated filer      (Do not check if a smaller reporting
company)           
     
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).         Yes         No      Aggregate market value of registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing price of a share of the registrant s common stock on January 25, 2008 as reported by
the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date: $144,486,532,744      Number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of
September 5, 2008: 5,883,028,141       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

(1)  
  Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareholders for its fiscal year ended July 26, 2008 are incorporated by reference into Part I and Part II of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K where indicated.         

(2)  
  Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant s 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 13, 2008, are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.                 

Table of Contents  

PART I     
 
      Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  1   

General   
      
  1   

Products and Services   
      
  1   

Customers and Markets   
      
  4   

Sales Overview   
      
  5   

Backlog   
      
  6   

Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances   
      
  6   

Competition   
      
  6   

Research and Development   
      
  7   

Manufacturing   
      
  8   

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing   
      
  8   

Employees   
      
  8   

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  9   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  11   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  24   
 
    Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  24   
 
    Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  24   
 
    Item 4.   
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  24   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  25   
 
    Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  25   
 
    Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  25   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  25   
 
    Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  25   
 
    Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  25   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  26   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  26   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  27   
 
    Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  27   
 
    Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  27   
 
    Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  27   
 
    Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  27   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  28   

Signatures   
      
  32   

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  which is incorporated by reference from our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe
harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed
forward-looking statements.   These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as
 expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues, 
 endeavors,   may,  variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our
anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks,
uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein and in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders. Therefore, actual results may differ
materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.          PART I          ITEM 1. Business
         General       We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide
a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products, which include primarily
routers, switches, and products that we refer to as our advanced technologies, are installed at large enterprises, public institutions, telecommunications companies, commercial businesses and personal residences. We conduct our business globally and
are managed geographically in five segments: the United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia
and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).      For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 14 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 14 is incorporated into this report by reference.      We
were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is
(408) 526-4000. Our website is  www.cisco.com . Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.         Products and Services       We sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products and services related to the communications and IT industry. Our products and services
are designed to address a wide range of customers  business needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage. Our corresponding technology focus is on delivering networking products and solutions that
simplify and secure customers  infrastructures and offer integrated services. Our products and services help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key
stakeholders, including customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products. In addition
to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising large
enterprise companies, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.      Our products are used individually or as integrated
offerings to connect personal and business computing devices to networks or computer networks with each other whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and service offerings across multiple
technology segments enables us to offer a wide range of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks to a single multiservice data,
voice, and video network, enabling economies of scale.         
   1   

Table of Contents  

   Our advanced technologies as a group have represented a larger proportion of our total revenue than
routing in recent periods. Each of our advanced technologies, in addition to our core routing and switching product categories, builds upon our existing competencies and allows us to expand the overall market for our products and services. We have
currently identified the following advanced technologies: application networking services, home networking, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems and wireless technology. We are in the process of identifying
additional advanced technologies for focus and investment in the future. As has been the case from time to time in the past, one or more of our presently identified advanced technologies may be curtailed or eliminated depending on market
developments. We have also continued to focus on developing a new wave of technologies, which we refer to as emerging technologies, including such products as Cisco TelePresence systems, physical security, and digital media, among others.
     The investments we have made and our architectural approach are based on the belief that collaboration and networked Web 2.0 technologies
that enable user collaboration, including unified communications and Cisco TelePresence systems, and the increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and information technology will create new market opportunities for
us. As part of the second major phase of the Internet, we believe the industry is evolving as both personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked Web 2.0 technologies help to increase innovation and productivity. We will endeavor
to lead this market transition both through product development and adoption in the external customer marketplace and through our own internal adoption and use.      Many of our strategic initiatives and investments are also based on our vision of the evolution of the network. Over time, we believe that the Internet and the various networks associated with it, including corporate
intranets; cable, broadband and dialup networks; and voice and video networks, will evolve to include embedded resources and the virtualization of applications and services to produce an integrated, intelligent system. This is our vision for the
evolution of networking from connectivity products to intelligent systems. In this evolving environment, we believe successful vendors will be capable of providing a broad spectrum of products aimed not at a particular technology platform but at
solutions to networking problems that span all segments. As such, we aim many of our strategic initiatives and investments at meeting the requirements that an intelligent network would demand, making the network the platform for the next generation
of value-added communications. For a discussion of the risks associated with that strategy, please see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to
existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer.  For information regarding sales of our major products and
services, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated into this report by reference.      Our offerings fall into several categories:        Routing        Routing technology is the foundation of an IP network. Routers interconnect IP networks, moving information such as data, voice, and video from one
network to another across metropolitan-area networks (MANs) and wide-area networks (WANs). Our routing products offer features designed to increase the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of
information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of routers, from core network infrastructure for service providers and large businesses to access routers for the service-rich branch office to home network deployments for
telecommuters and consumers. Many of our routers host a wide range of services and advanced technologies, delivering integrated voice, video, data, and mobility for homes and businesses. During fiscal 2008, we introduced the Cisco ASR 1000 Series
Aggregation Services Routers, designed to help service provider and enterprise edge networks simultaneously host an increasing array of integrated data, voice and video business and consumer services.        Switching        Switching is
another integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers to build local-area networks (LANs), across cities to build MANs, and across great distances to build WANs. Our switching products connect and forward packets
at the data-link layer in the network, and process data at the network layer. They offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points, and servers, and function as aggregators on LANs, MANs, and WANs. Our systems
employ several widely used technologies including Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Asynchronous Transfer Mode, Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches
support an integrated set of advanced services, delivering an integrated network solution for the organization. During fiscal 2008, we announced the Cisco Nexus 7000 and 5000 Series of data center-class switches, introduced interoperability through
an ecosystem of application and systems partners, and accelerated adoption with a data center channel partner enablement strategy.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

     Advanced Technologies         Application Networking Services       Cisco Application Networking Services is a comprehensive portfolio of application networking solutions to enable the successful and highly secure delivery of applications within data centers and across WANs to remote and branch-office
users. Using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing resources, these solutions are designed to provide a powerful framework to help ensure the successful deployment and delivery of
business applications across the entire organization.       Home Networking       Home networking products connect different devices in the household, through wired or wireless connections, allowing users to share Internet access,
printers, music, movies, and games throughout the home. Our products include voice and data modems, routers, network cards, media adapters, Internet video cameras, network storage, universal serial bus (USB) adapters, and other products that enable
customers to share an Internet connection or move digital content around their homes or small-office environments. These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide.
      Security       Cisco
security solutions include a wide range of information security products and services designed to protect critical information systems from unauthorized use; defend against attack; and minimize the effect of Internet-borne worms, spam, viruses, and
other malware. Our Self-Defending Network integrates security into the network, adapts to new and evolving threats, and enables collaboration across all security elements. As part of this strategy, we offer numerous network security technologies
embedded within our routers and switches, in standalone security appliances and as host-based software agents with central management and analysis. Our information security product and service offerings are designed to help ensure the end-to-end
integrity of the information network, simplify operations, and lower total cost of ownership. During fiscal 2008, we introduced the Cisco ASA 5580 Adaptive Security Appliance, designed to deliver data center-class performance with firewall and
Secure Socket Layer/IP security Virtual Private Network capabilities in a single platform.       Storage Area Networking       We provide storage area networking products that deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure connectivity between servers and storage systems,
including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. Our products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced network security, traffic management, virtualization, and tools that are designed to help make storing, retrieving,
and protecting critical data across widely distributed environments more efficient.       Unified Communications       Cisco Unified Communications integrate voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks, delivering a media-rich collaboration
experience to the workspace. Specific products include IP phones, client software, servers, and network appliances supporting call control, contact centers, messaging, conferencing, voice mobility, and collaboration including presence and preference
information. These products are available as software, as standalone devices, and as integrated components in Cisco routers and switches. These applications use the network as the platform to enhance competitive advantage by enabling users to
accelerate decision time and reduce transaction time. The security and scalability of the network enable users in any workspace to connect with one another through a computer, handset, personal digital assistant (PDA) or other similar communications
equipment. Cisco Unified Communications are part of a comprehensive solution that includes network infrastructure, security, wireless, management applications, lifecycle services, flexible deployment, outsourced management options, and third-party
applications. These products include the web-based collaborative offerings from our fiscal 2007 acquisition of WebEx Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ). Web-based collaboration offerings allow users to share presentations, applications,
documents, and desktops, with full-motion video and integrated audio, in a rich-multimedia environment online through the use of a standard web browser.       Video Systems       Our video systems consist primarily of digital set-top boxes and digital media
technology products. Digital set-top boxes provide video entertainment services to consumers. They enable subscribers to access a variety of interactive digital television services developed either by Cisco or third parties. Our equipment includes
Standard-Definition (SD) basic digital set-top boxes,  
       
   3   

Table of Contents  

DOCSIS (Data Over Cable System Interface Specification) digital set-top boxes, DOCSIS Gateway (DSG) digital set-top boxes, High-Definition (HD) digital
set-top boxes, Digital Video Recorder (DVR) set-top boxes, HD-DVR set-top boxes, Multi-Room DVR set-top boxes, Media Center DVR set-top boxes, and digital-only set-top boxes. Digital media technology products span a wide range of signal processing
and headend capabilities including reception, encoding or transcoding, transrating, multiplexing, ad insertion, switching, and modulation. Deployment of these capabilities can help service providers and broadcast customers to more efficiently
deliver entertainment, information, and communications services over their existing access networks.       Wireless Technology
      We offer a broad variety of in-building and outdoor wireless networking products. These products include access points, wireless LAN
controllers, wireless integrated switches and routers, wireless management software, wireless LAN clients and client software, bridges, antennas, and accessories. Our wireless networking products are designed to provide high performance and highly
secure, manageable, and reliable wireless LANs that enable mobility and increase productivity.        Other Products        Our other products are comprised primarily of optical networking products, cable access, and service provider voice-over-IP (VoIP) services. We provide
optical networking products for both the enterprise and service provider markets. We market and sell analog and digital optoelectronics which may reside in a network operator s headend, in other facilities such as distribution hubs, and in
optical nodes. Our other products also include such emerging technologies as Cisco TelePresence systems, physical security, and digital media products.        Service        In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings,
including technical support services and advanced services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help customers protect
their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support
of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe
this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.         Customers and Markets       Our customers  IT collaboration networking needs are influenced by
numerous factors, including the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the business applications deployed throughout the network. Our customer base is not concentrated in any particular industry,
geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our customers are primarily in the following markets:        Large Enterprise Businesses        Generally, we define large enterprise businesses as regional, national, or global organizations with 1,000 or more employees working in multiple locations or branch offices. Many of these customers have unique IT collaboration networking
needs within a multivendor environment. Our large enterprise customers include private and public sector firms and governments. We take advantage of the network as the platform to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist
customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners.
       Service Providers        Service providers offer data, voice, and video communication services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international telecommunications carriers as well as Internet, cable,
and wireless service providers. Service providers use a variety of our routing, switching, optical, storage, security, unified communications and call center, video systems, and network management products in their own networks. Compared with other
customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks. Additionally, many service providers offer managed network services incorporating our
enterprise and commercial products such as unified communications and call centers, including Intercompany TelePresence managed services, as well as virtual private networks (VPNs), security, and managed firewalls, for their business customers. We
also group media, broadcast, and  
       
   4   

Table of Contents  

portal providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based
service offerings and content and application-based service offerings.        Commercial        Generally, we define commercial customers as those having 5 to 1,000 employees, with two distinct sub-segments: mid-market customers and small and
medium-sized businesses (SMBs). Mid-market customers typically have 250 to 1,000 employees, while SMB customers typically have 5 to 250 employees. Mid-market customers are served by a combination of our sales department and channel partners and
typically require the latest advanced technology that is available to our large enterprise customers, but with less complexity. SMBs require information technology and communication products that are easy to configure, install and maintain. SMB
customers are served primarily by our channel partners.        Consumer        Consumer customers are individuals who utilize the network for personal use to enjoy a broad range of entertainment, communications and information
experiences. Cisco is able to deliver these solutions to consumers through an extensive variety of retailers, service providers and content owners.        Sales Overview       As of the end of fiscal 2008, our worldwide sales and marketing department
consisted of 23,529 employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in more than 85 countries and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels
with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other
resellers, distributors, and retail partners.      Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often
provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are
also systems integrators.      Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.
In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail
partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in
selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.      For information regarding risks related to our channels, please
see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins  and  Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier
distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.       For information regarding risks relating to our
international operations, please see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical
environment,   Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations,   Due to the global nature of our operations, political or
economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition,   We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and
cash flows  and  Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results  among others.      Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.
     We provide financing arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified customers to build,
maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases include sales-type, direct financing, and
operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and typically range from one to three years. Our loan financing arrangements
may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. For additional information regarding
these financing arrangements, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated into this report by reference.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

      Backlog       Our backlog at July 26, 2008, the last day of our 2008 fiscal year, was approximately $4.8 billion, compared with backlog of approximately $3.9 billion at July 28, 2007, the last day of our 2007 fiscal year.
Backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or
cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net sales for any future period.         Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances       The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single
company to develop all the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. Through acquisitions, investments, and alliances we work to broaden the range of products and services we are able to deliver to
customers in target markets. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services:       

Developing new technologies and products internally          

Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies          

Reselling other companies  products          

Acquiring all or parts of other companies           Acquisitions        We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of
high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial
condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in
 Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.         Investments in Privately Held Companies        We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully
discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our
earnings.         Strategic Alliances        We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals for a strategic alliance can include one or
more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT T Inc.; BearingPoint, Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Dell Inc.; EMC
Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Hewlett-Packard Company; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Microsoft Corporation; Nokia; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; Siemens AG; Sitronics Telecom Solutions,
Czech Republic a.s.; Sprint Nextel Corporation; ThruPoint Inc. and Wipro Limited; among others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are
more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.    
     Competition       We compete
in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging
technologies, and a migration to networking solutions that offer superior advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of
our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new
competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from  
       
   6   

Table of Contents  

China, and we anticipate this will continue.      Our competitors include: Alcatel-Lucent; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Belden CDT Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone Company;
Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Force10 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet Inc.; Foundry Networks Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Meru Networks, Inc.;
Microsoft Corporation; Motorola, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Nortel Networks Corporation; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others.      Some of these companies compete across multiple product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could
compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our
existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products.
Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas.      The principal competitive factors in the
markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:       

The ability to provide a broad range of networking products and services          

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages          

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection          

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing         We
also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with
many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and
accordingly affect our chances of success.         Research and Development       We regularly seek to introduce new products and features in areas including routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies. Our
research and development expenditures were $5.2 billion, $4.5 billion, and $4.1 billion in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. All of our expenditures for research and development costs, as well as in-process research and development of $3
million, $81 million, and $91 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, have been expensed as incurred.      The industry in which
we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and
timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with
customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments where
appropriate to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge. Still, there can be no assurance that we will be able
to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes or that such products will achieve market acceptance.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

      Manufacturing       We primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy that relies on contract manufacturers for manufacturing services. We presently use a variety of
independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, and product repair as well as product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure
products to customer needs and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing
process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, that are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing
processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.      Our
arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality and cost
management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on
an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time.
     Although we primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy, we continue to operate the facilities acquired in the February 2006
acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. ( Scientific-Atlanta ) including Scientific-Atlanta s principal facility in Juarez, Mexico. The manufacturing operations in Juarez range from automated assembly lines for volume production to
complete assembly of a particular product by one individual or small group of individuals.         Patents, Intellectual Property,
and Licensing       We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents,
copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is
appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the
United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents,
copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and
management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.      Many
of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past
experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our
inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and
financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.      The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation
regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to
technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks
associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,   We may be found to infringe
on intellectual property rights of others,  and  We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.          Employees       As of July 26, 2008, we employed 66,129 employees, including 16,794 in
manufacturing and service, 19,584 in engineering, 23,529 in sales and marketing, and 6,222 in general and administration. Approximately 28,700 employees are in locations outside the United States. We consider the relationships with our employees to
be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe
that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2008 of each of our executive officers:       

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Susan L. Bostrom   
      
  47  
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Global Policy and Government Affairs         Ms. Bostrom joined Cisco in October 1997 as Vice President of Cisco s Applications and Services
Marketing group. In August 1998, she was appointed Vice President of the Internet Business Solutions Group, and she was promoted to Senior Vice President in February 2000. In October 2002, she also assumed responsibility for Worldwide Government
Affairs. Since January 2006, she has served as Chief Marketing Officer, and in August 2007 she was named Executive Vice President. Before joining Cisco, Ms. Bostrom had served as Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and Strategic Planning at
FTP Software. Ms. Bostrom also currently serves on the board of directors of Varian Medical Systems, Inc.    

Frank A. Calderoni   
      
  51  
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer         Mr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He
was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior
to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002.    

Larry R. Carter   
      
  65  
      
    Senior Vice President, Office of the Chairman and CEO, and Director         Mr. Carter has been a member of the Board of Directors since July 2000. He joined Cisco in January
1995 as Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary. In July 1997, he was promoted to Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary. In May 2003, upon his
retirement as Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, he was appointed to his current position. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. as Vice President and Corporate Controller.    

Jonathan Chadwick   
      
  42  
      
    Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer         Mr. Chadwick joined Cisco in September 1997 as Director, Finance   Accounting. In May
1999, he was promoted to Senior Director, Corporate Finance   Accounting, and in February 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Corporate Finance   Planning. In September 2006, he was appointed as Vice President, Corporate Controller
and Principal Accounting Officer, and he was promoted to his current position in June 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Chadwick was employed by Coopers   Lybrand LLP.    

John T. Chambers   
      
  59  
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director         Mr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the Board of Directors
since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to
President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations.    
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

Name    
      
   Age   
      
     Position     
 
    Mark Chandler   
      
  52  
      
    Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary         Mr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he
served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice
President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice
President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.    

Wim Elfrink   
      
  56  
      
    Executive Vice President, Cisco Services and Chief Globalization Officer         Mr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In November 2000
he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalization Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore India
to establish Cisco s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President.    

Richard J. Justice   
      
  58  
      
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Business Development         Mr. Justice joined Cisco in December 1996 as Senior Vice President of the Americas. In February 2000,
he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. He became Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Business Development in December 2006 and was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr.
Justice spent 22 years at Hewlett-Packard Company where, in his last role, he was responsible for Worldwide Enterprise Sales and Marketing.    

Randy Pond   
      
  54  
      
    Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems         Mr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Cisco s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing
Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations
and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President
Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications.    
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Set forth below and elsewhere in this
report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report.
      OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE       Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors. These factors include:

Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part due to
changes in the global economic environment          

Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers  spending plans and associated revenue

Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments          

Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different business
models from various geographic regions          

The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers          

The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new markets, including emerging and advanced technologies, as well as the
adoption of new standards          

Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold          

The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers          

Manufacturing and customer lead times          

Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors, that contribute to such fluctuations as described below          

Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions          

The ability of our customers, channel partners, and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures          

Share-based compensation expense and the timing and amount of employer payroll tax to be paid on our employees  gains on stock options exercised

Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including
the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans          

Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities          

Changes in accounting rules, such as increased use of fair value measures and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)         As a consequence, operating results for a particular
future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed  
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock
price.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT  
     Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as
well as to specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in:       

Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other
customer markets as well          

Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products

Risk of excess and obsolete inventories          

Excess facilities and manufacturing capacity          

Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense         Recent turmoil in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and changes in energy costs may continue to put pressure on global economic
conditions. Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment, such as the challenges that are
currently affecting economic conditions in the United States. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience
material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A
SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a
particular quarter is difficult to predict. Our net sales may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or may decline. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our
past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it
difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in
potential additional inventory management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which we and our contract
manufacturers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.      The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in our Emerging
Markets theater and other emerging countries. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to
predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in net sales. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate
recognition as revenue.      In addition, to improve customer satisfaction, we continue to attempt to improve our manufacturing lead-time
performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results. Long manufacturing lead times
have caused our customers in the past to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead
times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) may cause difficulty in predicting our sales and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively.      We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively
fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.      Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE    
  Our level of product gross margins may not be sustainable and may continue to be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:       

Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group          

Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages          

Our ability to reduce production costs          

Entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or internal development          

Sales discounts          

Increases in material or labor costs          

Excess inventory and inventory holding charges          

Obsolescence charges          

Changes in shipment volume          

The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals          

Loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate
product demand          

Lower than expected benefits from value engineering          

Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China          

Changes in distribution channels          

Increased warranty costs          

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans         Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract
initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.       SALES TO THE
SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION       Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain of our advanced technologies, in addition to longer sales
cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding
network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result
of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have seen a slowdown in capital expenditures by a few of our
service provider customers, and believe there may be potential for a broader slowdown in the global service provider market   in the next few quarters. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the
competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by
changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our
business and operating results in the past, and some of  
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period. Finally, service provider
customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue
recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers.       DISRUPTION OF OR
CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS       If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services
properly, or if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.      A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and
retail partners. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales.
Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other
resellers. In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors
and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for
changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from
our customers.      Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels.
Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.      Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following:

We compete with some of our channel partners through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their
own products          

Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear          

Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions      
  In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR
TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS       We must manage our inventory relating to
sales to our distributors and retail partners effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors and retail partners may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their
inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal
fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of
inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive
lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in
turn could result in lower gross margins.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

    A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS OR CAUSE A DELAY IN OUR
ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS       Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract
manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of
our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts, especially if the economy
grows. Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels. If
shortages or delays persist, the price of these components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components
at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results
would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many
cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver
products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.      We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the
future:       

New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity          

As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners

We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets         Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use
several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements
with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to
cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could
adversely affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note
is incorporated into this report by reference.      A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more
components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products
could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to
purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross
margins could decrease.      The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk of our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse impact on
the supply of our products and on our operating results. Financial problems of contract manufacturers on which we rely, or reservation of manufacturing capacity by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or
increase costs.      Our key manufacturing facility for Scientific-Atlanta s products is located in Juarez, Mexico, and we may be
materially and adversely affected by any prolonged disruption in the operation of this facility.         
   15   

Table of Contents  

    THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUE GROWTH
      The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and
communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions
may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular,
we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. For information regarding our competition and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we
operate, see the section entitled  Competition  contained in Item 1 of this report.      The principal competitive factors in
the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:       

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services          

Product performance          

Price          

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages          

The ability to reduce production costs          

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection          

Conformance to standards          

Market presence          

The ability to provide financing         We
also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with
many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and
accordingly affect our chances of success.       WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO
PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS  CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER       The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to
develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the industry is evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked Web 2.0,
the technologies that enable user collaboration, as part of the second major phase of the Internet. As such, many of our strategic initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple party,
collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable networked Web 2.0 and the increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. The process
of developing new technology is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers  changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources to developing new
products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not
evolve as we believe it will, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing, technical hurdles that we
fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, net sales, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several
factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no
assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render
our products or  
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. Specifically, the products and technologies that we identify as  emerging technologies,  such as Cisco
TelePresence systems, or  advanced technologies  may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or advanced technologies.       WE ARE INCREASING OUR INVESTMENT IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED
BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       We intend to continue to add personnel and other resources to our engineering, sales,
service, and manufacturing functions as we focus on developing emerging technologies, the next wave of advanced technologies, growing the commercial market segment, capitalizing on our emerging market opportunities, enhancing our evolving support
model and increasing our market share gains. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we
expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.       OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS       A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of networked Web 2.0 as part of the second major phase of the Internet, and on the deployment of our
products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic slowdown and reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure, we could experience material harm to our
business, operating results, and financial condition.      Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements
related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large
supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also
result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business.       CHANGES IN INDUSTRY
STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES AND ASSET IMPAIRMENTS       In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of
or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who
were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and
decisions. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual
tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.       WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE
ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to
enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines,
technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:       

Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and
widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta and WebEx          

Diversion of management s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting
from acquisitions          

Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development            
   17   

Table of Contents  

Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions

Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners          

Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions          

The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after
announcement of acquisition plans         Acquisitions may also cause us to:       

Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders  percentage ownership          

Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, as we did in connection with our June 2007 acquisition of WebEx, or incur debt, as we did in February 2006 when we
issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta          

Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition

Assume liabilities          

Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges

Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets          

Incur tax expenses related to the post-acquisition integration of purchased intangible assets into our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement

Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses          

Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation         Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful
and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in
a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be
made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products.      From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in in-process research and development expenses being charged in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in
variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. Please see the risk
factors above, including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs,
our operating results and market share may suffer  for additional information.       ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL
COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS       As we focus on new market opportunities for example, storage;
wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same network; and other advanced technologies and emerging technologies we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup
companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service,
support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in the Emerging Markets theater. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide
products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry
into other markets, including our entry into the consumer market, has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence.   
   PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME       We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that
can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our preshipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might
interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. In the past, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had
shipped. Although the cost of such remediation has not been material in the past, there can be no assurance that such a remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could
result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and
net income.       INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen
or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source
vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid
consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.       DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION       We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States; maintain a
manufacturing facility for a substantial portion of our video systems products in Juarez, Mexico; and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers and our distribution partners. Recently our Emerging Markets theater has been
a relatively fast growing theater, and we have announced plans to expand our commitments and growth expectations in this theater. As such, our growth depends in part on our continuing to increase sales into this theater. We also intend to
expand our level of business activity in two large emerging countries, India and China, and our growth in the Asia Pacific theater will also depend in part upon our continuing to increase sales in these countries. Our future results could be
materially adversely affected by a variety of factors relating to our operations outside the United States, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, foreign
currency exchange rates; political or social unrest, economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may
affect our ability to import our products to, export our products from, or sell our products in various countries; political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns; health or similar issues, such as a pandemic
or epidemic; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries.       WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES       Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions,
longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we
believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing to continue.
We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our
products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.      Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if there is an economic slowdown. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the
associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among
Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred,
could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors and retail partners. These distributors and retail partners are generally given
business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms.
However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet
payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers  ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have
a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT
COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS       Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the
United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.
Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars.
Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United
States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.      Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency
receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income.       OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE       We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are
currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key
aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will
be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign
countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are
unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the
substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.       WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS       Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or
initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the
general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new
patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include
claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be
time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to
unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a
claim were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts.
If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions,
our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.      Our exposure to risks associated with
the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in
the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.       WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES       Many of our products are designed to include software or other
intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable
terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our
products.       OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET       Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the
Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales taxes on Internet product sales, and access charges for Internet service
providers. The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition.       CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES
      Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or
other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers  network infrastructures and
materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.      Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or
application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various Federal Communications Commission
requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY
TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES       Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical,
managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and
provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and
share-based compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject
us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales
personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in
improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

    ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION
      We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal
business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. In addition, Brazilian authorities are investigating certain employees of our Brazilian subsidiary and certain employees of a Brazilian importer of our
products relating to the allegation of evading import taxes and other alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. We are conducting a thorough review of the matter. To date, Brazilian authorities have not asserted a
claim against us. In addition, we are investigating the allegations regarding improper transactions, we have proactively communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on our findings, and the United States authorities
are currently investigating such allegations. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding
certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  contained in Part I of this report.       CHANGES IN OUR
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS       Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax
rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the post-acquisition integration of purchased intangible assets from
certain acquisitions into our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles,
including accounting for uncertain tax positions or interpretations thereof. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in Financial Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). In addition, FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably
could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax
rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal
Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these
continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.       OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY
SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS       Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our
research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the
past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.       MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS       Despite our implementation of network security measures our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could
have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit  
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition,
the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further
uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in
delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.       WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS  
     We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as
available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes fixed
income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If the market price declines, we may recognize in earnings the decline in fair value of our
investments below the cost basis when the decline is judged to be other-than-temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  included in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which section is incorporated by reference into this report. Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss
of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these
companies.       IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
      We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary
products and services. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. If successful, these relationships may be mutually
beneficial and result in industry growth. However, these alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with
that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties.       OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE       Historically, our
common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us.
Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In
addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.
These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or
potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program including our stock
incentive program may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price.       WE HAVE ISSUED $6.5 BILLION OF SENIOR UNSECURED NOTES, AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED       We have issued senior unsecured notes in an aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion that mature at specific dates in 2009, 2011 and 2016. The notes
that mature in 2009 bear floating-rate interest payable quarterly while the notes that mature in 2011 and 2016 bear fixed-rate interest payable semi-annually. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we terminated $6.0 billion of interest rate
swaps, which previously had the effect of converting fixed-rate interest expense to floating-rate interest expense based on LIBOR. As a result, the fair value of the long-term debt is effectively subject to market interest rate volatility. The
instruments governing the notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. We had not previously
undertaken substantial amounts of debt for borrowed money. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources, including cash currently
held offshore. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the
value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       Not applicable.         ITEM 2.
Properties       Our headquarters are located at an owned site in San Jose, California. In addition to this site, we own certain sites in the
United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boxborough, Massachusetts; Richardson, Texas; Lawrenceville, Georgia; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. We also own land for expansion in some of
these locations. In addition, we also lease office space in several U.S. locations.      Outside the United States our operations are conducted
primarily in leased sites. During fiscal 2008, we opened our Globalisation Centre East campus at a leased site in Bangalore, India. Other significant sites include sites in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Israel, Japan, Netherlands,
Singapore, and the United Kingdom, among others.      We own and lease certain Scientific-Atlanta manufacturing facilities with a principal
manufacturing facility, which we own, located in Juarez, Mexico. We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business.      For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report
to Shareholders. Note 10 is incorporated by reference herein. For additional information regarding properties by operating segment, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 14 is
incorporated by reference herein.        ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings       We and other defendants were subject to claims asserted by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. on July 16, 2004 in the Federal District Court for the
District of Delaware alleging that various Cisco routers, switches and optical products infringed United States Patent Nos. 4,893,306, 4,835,763, and Re 36,633. Telcordia sought damages and injunctive relief. The Court ruled that, as a matter of
law, we do not infringe Patent No. 4,893,306. After conclusion of a trial, on May 10, 2007, a jury found that infringement had occurred on the other patents and awarded damages in an amount that is not material to us. We have asked the
Court to reverse the verdict as a matter of law, and if necessary, we intend to appeal the decision. Telcordia has asked the Court to enhance damages and award it attorneys  fees and also has the right to appeal. We believe that the ultimate
outcome of this matter and aggregate potential damages will not be material.      Brazilian authorities are investigating certain employees of
our Brazilian subsidiary and certain employees of a Brazilian importer of our products relating to the allegation of evading import taxes and other alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. We are conducting a thorough
review of the matter. To date, Brazilian authorities have not asserted a claim against us. We are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome on any potential claims against us or to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. In
addition, we are investigating the allegations regarding improper transactions, we have proactively communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on our findings, and the United States authorities are currently
investigating such allegations.      In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of
business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of
others  herein.       I  TEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders       None.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

      PART II          ITEM 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       (a) The market price and related Cisco shareholder information required by this item are incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Stock
Market Information  on page 83 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders.      (b) Not Applicable.      (c) Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (in millions, except per-share amounts):       

(1)      
    Includes approximately 350,000 shares repurchased to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose on the vesting of
shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units.      

(2)    
        On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of
Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 26, 2008, our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program. During fiscal 2008, we repurchased and retired
372 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $27.80 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $10.4 billion. As of July 26, 2008, we had repurchased and retired 2.6 billion shares of our common stock at an average price
of $20.60 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $53.6 billion since inception of the stock repurchase program, and the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was $8.4 billion with no termination date.
           ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to page 18 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 19 to 42 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 43 to 46 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders.         ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages 47 to 82 and the section entitled  Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)  on page 83 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders.
        ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures       None.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

      ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures        Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       Based on our management s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer), as of the end of the period covered by this report, our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.       Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management s report on our internal control over
financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting are incorporated by reference to the portion of page 16 under the caption  Management s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and to page 17, respectively, of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders.      There was no
change in our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.         ITEM 9B. Other Information       None.         
   26   

Table of Contents  

      PART III          ITEM 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       The
information required by this item relating to our directors and nominees, regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934, and regarding our Audit Committee is included under the captions  Proposal No. 1:
Election of Directors General  and   Business Experience of Nominees,   Ownership of Securities Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  and  Proposal No. 1: Election of
Directors Board Committees and Meetings  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.      Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive officers is included under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of
this report.      We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer and all members of our finance department,
including the principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. This code of ethics, which consists of the  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities  section of our Code of Business
Conduct that applies to employees generally, is posted on our website. The Internet address for our website is  www.cisco.com , and the code of ethics may be found from our main web page by clicking first on  About Cisco  and then on
 Corporate Governance  under  Investor Relations,  next on  Code of Business Conduct  under  Corporate Governance,  and finally on  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting
Responsibilities.       We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or
waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics by posting such information on our website, on the web page found by clicking through to  Code of Business Conduct  as specified above.         ITEM 11. Executive Compensation       The information appearing under the headings  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Director Compensation  and  Executive Compensation and Related Information  in our Proxy Statement
related to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 12. Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters       The information required by this item relating to security
ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included under the caption  Ownership of Securities,  and the information required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is
included under the caption  Equity Compensation Plan Information,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       The information required by this item relating to review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is included under the caption
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  and the information required by this item relating to director independence is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Independent Directors, 
in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.         ITEM 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services       The information required by this item is
included under the captions  Proposal No. 2: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Principal Accountant Fees and Services  and  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible
Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        ITEM 15.   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules        

(a)    1.  
  Financial Statements        The Index to
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 29 is incorporated herein by reference as the list of financial statements required as part of this report.       

2.  
  Financial Statement Schedule        The Index
to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule on page 29 is incorporated herein by reference as the list of financial statement schedules required as part of this report.       
    The exhibit list in the Index
to Exhibits is incorporated herein by reference as the list of exhibits required as part of this report.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE        Item 15(a)        

Page    

Form 10-K   
     
   2008 Annual     Report to     Shareholders    
 
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

16   
 
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

17   
 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets at July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007   

47   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years in the period ended July 26, 2008   

48   
 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 26, 2008   

49   
 
  Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended July 26, 2008  

50   
 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

51-82   
 
  Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited) and Stock Market Information Fiscal 2008 and 2007 by Quarter  

83   
 
    Financial Statement Schedule:   

Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts   
     
  30  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule   
     
  31  

29   

Table of Contents  

    SCHEDULE II        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        (in millions)        
       
   30   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE       To the Board of
Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:      Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated September 12 appearing in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.      /s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP
     San Jose, California      September 12, 2008         
   31   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

September 15, 2008  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS            

John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     
     POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John T. Chambers and Frank A. Calderoni,
jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for such person, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might do or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his substitute, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS               John T. Chambers    
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  September 15, 2008   

/ S /     F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI               Frank A. Calderoni    
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  September 15, 2008   

/ S /    J ONATHAN 
C HADWICK               Jonathan Chadwick    
      
    Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer   
     
  September 15, 2008   

/ S /    C AROL  A.
B ARTZ               Carol A. Bartz    
      
    Lead Independent Director   
     
  September 15, 2008   

M. Michele Burns    
      
    Director   

/ S /    M ICHAEL  D.
C APELLAS               Michael D. Capellas    
      
    Director   
     
  September 15, 2008   
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

33   

Table of Contents  

    INDEX TO EXHIBITS        

Table of Contents  

Schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K. Cisco Systems, Inc. hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally copies of any of the
omitted schedules and exhibits upon request by the Securities and Exchange Commission.     

*  
  Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.1        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        EFFECTIVE AS OF NOVEMBER 15, 2005        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED        EFFECTIVE AS OF NOVEMBER 15, 2007    

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    
 
  SECTION 1.  

INTRODUCTION  
      
  1   

SECTION 2.  

DEFINITIONS  
      
  1   

(a)  
     
     Affiliate    
      
  1   

(b)  
     
     Award    
      
  1   

(c)  
     
     Board    
      
  1   

(d)  
     
     Cashless Exercise    
      
  1   

(e)  
     
     Cause    
      
  2   

(f)  
     
     Change In Control    
      
  2   

(g)  
     
     Code    
      
  2   

(h)  
     
     Committee    
      
  2   

(i)  
     
     Common Stock    
      
  2   

(j)  
     
     Company    
      
  2   

(k)  
     
     Consultant    
      
  2   

(l)  
     
     Corporate Transaction    
      
  3   

(m)  
     
     Covered Employees    
      
  3   

(n)  
     
     Director    
      
  3   

(o)  
     
     Disability    
      
  3   

(p)  
     
     Employee    
      
  3   

(q)  
     
     Exchange Act    
      
  3   

(r)  
     
     Exercise Price    
      
  3   

(s)  
     
     Fair Market Value    
      
  3   

(t)  
     
     Fiscal Year    
      
  4   

(u)  
     
     Grant    
      
  4   

(v)  
     
     Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO    
      
  4   

(w)  
     
     Key Employee    
      
  4   

(x)  
     
     Non-Employee Director    
      
  4   

(y)  
     
     Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO    
      
  4   

(z)  
     
     Option    
      
  4   

(aa)  
     
     Optionee    
      
  4   

(bb)  
     
     Parent    
      
  4   
       
   -i-   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

(cc)  
     
     Participant    
      
  4   

(dd)  
     
     Performance Goal    
      
  5   

(ee)  
     
     Performance Period    
      
  5   

(ff)  
     
     Plan    
      
  5   

(gg)  
     
     Previous Plan Award    
      
  5   

(hh)  
     
     Re-Price    
      
  5   

(ii)  
     
     SAR Agreement    
      
  5   

(jj)  
     
     SEC    
      
  5   

(kk)  
     
     Section 16 Persons    
      
  5   

(ll)  
     
     Securities Act    
      
  5   

(mm)  
     
     Service    
      
  5   

(nn)  
     
     Share    
      
  6   

(oo)  
     
     Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR    
      
  6   

(pp)  
     
     Stock Grant    
      
  6   

(qq)  
     
     Stock Grant Agreement    
      
  6   

(rr)  
     
     Stock Option Agreement    
      
  6   

(ss)  
     
     Stock Unit    
      
  6   

(tt)  
     
     Stock Unit Agreement    
      
  6   

(uu)  
     
     Subsidiary    
      
  6   

(vv)  
     
     10-Percent Shareholder    
      
  6   

SECTION 3.  

ADMINISTRATION  
      
  7   

(a)  
     
    Committee Composition   
      
  7   

(b)  
     
    Authority of the Committee   
      
  7   

(c)  
     
    Indemnification   
      
  8   

SECTION 4.  

GENERAL  
      
  8   

(a)  
     
    General Eligibility   
      
  8   

(b)  
     
    Incentive Stock Options   
      
  8   

(c)  
     
    Restrictions on Shares   
      
  8   

(d)  
     
    Beneficiaries   
      
  8   

(e)  
     
    Performance Conditions   
      
  9   

(f)  
     
    No Rights as a Shareholder   
      
  9   
       
   ii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

(g)  
     
    Termination of Service   
      
  9   

(h)  
     
    Director Fees   
      
  9   

SECTION 5.  

SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS  
      
  10   

(a)  
     
    Basic Limitations   
      
  10   

(b)  
     
    Additional Shares   
      
  10   

(c)  
     
    Dividend Equivalents   
      
  10   

(d)  
     
    Share Limits   
      
  10   

SECTION 6.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS  
      
  11   

(a)  
     
    Stock Option Agreement   
      
  11   

(b)  
     
    Number of Shares   
      
  11   

(c)  
     
    Exercise Price   
      
  11   

(d)  
     
    Exercisability and Term   
      
  11   

(e)  
     
    Modifications or Assumption of Options   
      
  11   

(f)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of Options   
      
  12   

SECTION 7.  

PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES  
      
  12   

SECTION 8.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS  
      
  13   

(a)  
     
    SAR Agreement   
      
  13   

(b)  
     
    Number of Shares   
      
  13   

(c)  
     
    Exercise Price   
      
  13   

(d)  
     
    Exercisability and Term   
      
  13   

(e)  
     
    Exercise of SARs   
      
  13   

(f)  
     
    Modification or Assumption of SARs   
      
  14   

(g)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of SARs   
      
  14   

SECTION 9.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS.  
      
  14   

(a)  
     
    Amount and Form of Awards   
      
  14   

(b)  
     
    Stock Grant Agreement   
      
  14   

(c)  
     
    Payment for Stock Grants   
      
  15   

(d)  
     
    Vesting Conditions   
      
  15   

(e)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants   
      
  15   

(f)  
     
    Voting and Dividend Rights   
      
  15   
       
   iii   

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Page    

(g)  
     
    Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants   
      
  15   

SECTION 10.  

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS  
      
  15   

(a)  
     
    Stock Unit Agreement   
      
  15   

(b)  
     
    Number of Shares   
      
  16   

(c)  
     
    Payment for Stock Units   
      
  16   

(d)  
     
    Vesting Conditions   
      
  16   

(e)  
     
    Voting and Dividend Rights   
      
  16   

(f)  
     
    Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units   
      
  16   

(g)  
     
    Creditors  Rights   
      
  17   

(h)  
     
    Modification or Assumption of Stock Units   
      
  17   

(i)  
     
    Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units   
      
  17   

SECTION 11.  

PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION  
      
  17   

(a)  
     
    Adjustments   
      
  17   

(b)  
     
    Participant Rights   
      
  17   

(c)  
     
    Fractional Shares   
      
  18   

SECTION 12.  

EFFECT OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION  
      
  18   

(a)  
     
    Corporate Transaction   
      
  18   

(b)  
     
    Acceleration   
      
  18   

(c)  
     
    Dissolution   
      
  18   

SECTION 13.  

LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS  
      
  19   

(a)  
     
    No Entitlements   
      
  19   

(b)  
     
    Shareholders  Rights   
      
  19   

(c)  
     
    Regulatory Requirements   
      
  19   

SECTION 14.  

WITHHOLDING TAXES  
      
  19   

(a)  
     
    General   
      
  19   

(b)  
     
    Share Withholding   
      
  20   

SECTION 15.  

DURATION AND AMENDMENTS  
      
  20   

(a)  
     
    Term of the Plan   
      
  20   

(b)  
     
    Right to Amend or Terminate the Plan   
      
  20   

SECTION 16.  

EXECUTION  
      
  20   
       
   iv   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        AS AMENDED AND RESTATED       (Effective as of November 15, 2007)       SECTION 1.
  INTRODUCTION  .       The Company s Board of Directors adopted the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
and restated on September 13, 2007; provided that, the Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. If the Company s shareholders do not approve this Plan, no Awards will be made under this Plan.      The purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term success of the Company and the creation of shareholder value by offering Key Employees an opportunity
to share in such long-term success by acquiring a proprietary interest in the Company.      The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing
for discretionary long-term incentive Awards in the form of Options (which may constitute Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Grants, and Stock Units.      The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California (except its choice-of-law provisions).      Capitalized terms shall have the meaning provided in Section 2 unless otherwise provided in this Plan or any related Stock Option Agreement, SAR
Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement.       SECTION 2.   DEFINITIONS  .       (a)  Affiliate  means any entity other than a Subsidiary, if the Company and/or one or more Subsidiaries own not less than 50% of such entity.
     (b)  Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan.      (c)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time.      (d)  Cashless Exercise  means, to the extent that a Stock Option Agreement so provides and as permitted by applicable law, a program approved by
the Committee in which payment may be made all or in part by delivery (on a form prescribed by the Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker to sell Shares and to deliver all or part of the sale proceeds to the Company in payment
of the aggregate Exercise Price and, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal and state income taxes, payroll
taxes, and foreign taxes, if applicable.         
   1   

(e)  Cause  means, except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment
agreement or Award agreement, a conviction of a Participant for a felony crime or the failure of a Participant to contest prosecution for a felony crime, or a Participant s misconduct, fraud or dishonesty (as such terms are defined by the
Committee in its sole discretion), or any unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets, in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive and binding.   
  (f)  Change In Control  except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the
occurrence of any of the following:      (i) A change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six consecutive
months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such
period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or
nomination; or      (ii) The acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the
Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company representing
more than 35% of the total combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders accept.
     (g)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and interpretations promulgated thereunder.
     (h)  Committee  means a committee described in Section 3.      (i)  Common Stock  means the Company s common stock.      (j)  Company  means Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation.      (k)  Consultant 
means an individual who performs bona fide services to the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, other than as an Employee or Director or Non-Employee Director.       
  
   -2-   

(l)  Corporate Transaction  except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s
employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following shareholder approved transactions:      (i) The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another entity or any other corporate reorganization, if more than 50% of the combined voting power of the continuing or surviving entity s securities
outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or other reorganization is owned by persons who were not shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization; or      (ii) The sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company s assets.      A transaction shall not constitute a Corporate Transaction if its sole purpose is to change the state of the Company s incorporation or to create a
holding company that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company s securities immediately before such transactions.      (m)  Covered Employees  means those persons who are subject to the limitations of Code Section 162(m).      (n)  Director  means a member of the Board who is also an Employee.      (o)  Disability 
means that the Key Employee is classified as disabled under a long-term disability policy of the Company or, if no such policy applies, the Key Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.      (p)  Employee  means an individual who is a common-law employee of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate.      (q)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      (r)  Exercise
Price  means, in the case of an Option, the amount for which a Share may be purchased upon exercise of such Option, as specified in the applicable Stock Option Agreement.  Exercise Price,  in the case of a SAR, means an amount, as
specified in the applicable SAR Agreement, which is subtracted from the Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of such SAR.      (s)  Fair Market Value  means the market price of a Share as determined in good faith by the Committee. The Fair Market Value shall be determined by the following:         
   -3-   

(i) If the Shares were traded over-the-counter or listed with NASDAQ on the date in question, then
the Fair Market Value shall be equal to the last transaction price quoted by the NASDAQ system for the date in question or (ii) if the Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange on the date in question,
the Fair Market Value is the closing selling price for the Common Stock as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on the exchange determined by the Committee to be the primary market for the Common Stock for the date
in question; provided, however, that if there is no such reported price for the Common Stock for the date in question under (i) or (ii), then such price on the last preceding date for which such price exists shall be determinative of Fair
Market Value.      If neither (i) or (ii) are applicable, then the Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in good
faith on such basis as it deems appropriate.      Whenever possible, the determination of Fair Market Value by the Committee shall be based on
the prices reported in the Western Edition of  The Wall Street Journal . Such determination shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.      (t)  Fiscal Year  means the Company s fiscal year.      (u)  Grant  means any grant of an Award under the
Plan.      (v)  Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an incentive stock option described in Code Section 422.
     (w)  Key Employee  means an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director or Consultant who has been selected by the Committee to
receive an Award under the Plan.      (x)  Non-Employee Director  means a member of the Board who is not an Employee.      (y)  Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO  means a stock option that is not an ISO.      (z)  Option  means an ISO or NSO granted under the Plan entitling the Optionee to purchase Shares.      (aa)  Optionee  means an individual, estate or other entity that holds an Option.      (bb)  Parent  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Company, if each of the
corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Parent on a date after the
adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Parent commencing as of such date.      (cc)  Participant  means an individual or estate or
other entity that holds an Award.         
   -4-   

(dd)  Performance Goal  means an objective formula or standard determined by the
Committee with respect to each Performance Period utilizing one or more of the following factors and any objectively verifiable adjustment(s) thereto permitted and preestablished by the Committee in accordance with Code Section 162(m):
(i) operating income; (ii) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (iii) earnings; (iv) cash flow; (v) market share; (vi) sales; (vii) revenue; (viii) profits before interest and taxes;
(ix) expenses; (x) cost of goods sold; (xi) profit/loss or profit margin; (xii) working capital; (xiii) return on capital, equity or assets; (xiv) earnings per share; (xv) economic value added; (xvi) stock
price; (xvii) price/earnings ratio; (xviii) debt or debt-to-equity; (xix) accounts receivable; (xx) writeoffs; (xxi) cash; (xxii) assets; (xxiii) liquidity; (xxiv) operations; (xxv) intellectual
property (e.g., patents); (xxvi) product development; (xxvii) regulatory activity; (xxviii) manufacturing, production or inventory; (xxix) mergers and acquisitions or divestitures; (xxx) financings; and/or
(xxxi) customer satisfaction, each with respect to the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates or operating units. Awards issued to persons who are not Covered Employees may take into account other factors (including subjective factors).
     (ee)  Performance Period  means any period not exceeding 36 months as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The
Committee may establish different Performance Periods for different Participants, and the Committee may establish concurrent or overlapping Performance Periods.      (ff)  Plan  means this Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as amended and restated, and as it may be further amended from time to time.      (gg)  Previous Plan Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan,
the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan.      (hh)
 Re-Price  means that the Company has lowered or reduced the Exercise Price of outstanding Options and/or outstanding SARs for any Participant(s), whether through amendment, cancellation, or replacement grants, or any other means.
     (ii)  SAR Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 8 evidencing each Award of a Stock Appreciation Right.
     (jj)  SEC  means the Securities and Exchange Commission.      (kk)  Section 16 Persons  means those officers, directors or other persons who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.   
  (ll)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.      (mm)  Service  means service as an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director or Consultant. A Participant s Service does not terminate when
continued service crediting         
   -5-   

is required by applicable law. However, for purposes of determining whether an Option is entitled
to continuing ISO status, a common-law employee s Service will be treated as terminating ninety (90) days after such Employee went on leave, unless such Employee s right to return to active work is guaranteed by law or by a contract.
Service terminates in any event when the approved leave ends, unless such Employee immediately returns to active work. The Committee determines which leaves count toward Service, and when Service terminates for all purposes under the Plan. Further,
unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant provides service to the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate,
or a transfer between entities (the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate); provided that there is no interruption or other termination of Service.      (nn)  Share  means one share of Common Stock.      (oo)  Stock Appreciation Right  or
 SAR  means a stock appreciation right awarded under the Plan.      (pp)  Stock Grant  means Shares awarded under the Plan.
     (qq)  Stock Grant Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 9 evidencing each Award of a Stock Grant.   
  (rr)  Stock Option Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 6 evidencing each Award of an Option.      (ss)  Stock Unit  means a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent of one Share, as awarded under the Plan.      (tt)  Stock Unit Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 10 evidencing each Award of a Stock Unit.      (uu)  Subsidiary  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company, if each of the
corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of
a Subsidiary on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Subsidiary commencing as of such date.      (vv)  10-Percent
Shareholder  means an individual who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company, its Parent or any of its Subsidiaries. In determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of
Section 424(d) of the Code shall be applied.         
   -6-   

SECTION 3.   ADMINISTRATION  .       (a) Committee Composition. The Board or a Committee appointed by the Board shall administer the Plan. Unless the Board provides otherwise, the
Company s Compensation   Management Development Committee shall be the Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and shall be subject to removal by the Board at any time. The
Board may also at any time terminate the functions of the Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to the Committee.      The Committee shall have membership composition which enables (i) Awards to Section 16 Persons to qualify as exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and (ii) Awards to Covered Employees to qualify
as performance-based compensation as provided under Code Section 162(m).      The Board may also appoint one or more separate committees of
the Board, each composed of two or more directors of the Company who need not qualify under Rule 16b-3 or Code Section 162(m), that may administer the Plan with respect to Key Employees who are not Section 16 Persons or Covered Employees,
respectively, may grant Awards under the Plan to such Key Employees and may determine all terms of such Awards.      Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Board shall constitute the Committee and shall administer the Plan with respect to Non-Employee Directors, shall grant Awards under the Plan to such Non-Employee Directors, and shall determine all terms of such Awards.      (b) Authority of the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full authority and sole discretion to take any actions it
deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Such actions shall include:       

(i)  
  selecting Key Employees who are to receive Awards under the Plan;         

(ii)  
  determining the type, number, vesting requirements and other features and conditions of such Awards and amending such Awards;         

(iii)  
  correcting any defect, supplying any omission, or reconciling any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award agreement;         

(iv)  
  accelerating the vesting, or extending the post-termination exercise term, of Awards at any time and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate;

(v)  
  interpreting the Plan;         

(vi)  
  making all other decisions relating to the operation of the Plan; and         

(vii)  
  adopting such plans or subplans as may be deemed necessary or appropriate to provide for the participation by Key Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates who
reside outside the U.S., which plans and/or subplans shall be attached hereto as Appendices.           
   -7-   

The Committee may adopt such rules or guidelines as it deems appropriate to implement the Plan. The
Committee s determinations under the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons.      (c) Indemnification. To the maximum extent
permitted by applicable law, each member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (i) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him
or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Stock Option Agreement,
SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement, and (ii) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim,
action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing
right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any
power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.       SECTION 4.   GENERAL  .       (a) General Eligibility. Only Employees, Directors, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be eligible for designation as Key Employees by the
Committee, in its sole discretion.      (b) Incentive Stock Options. Only Key Employees who are common-law employees of the Company, a Parent or
a Subsidiary shall be eligible for the grant of ISOs. In addition, a Key Employee who is a 10-Percent Shareholder shall not be eligible for the grant of an ISO unless the requirements set forth in Section 422(c)(5) of the Code are satisfied.
     (c) Restrictions on Shares. Any Shares issued pursuant to an Award shall be subject to such rights of repurchase, rights of first refusal
and other transfer restrictions as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Such restrictions shall apply in addition to any restrictions that may apply to holders of Shares generally and shall also comply to the extent necessary with
applicable law. In no event shall the Company be required to issue fractional Shares under this Plan.      (d) Beneficiaries. Unless stated
otherwise in an Award agreement, a Participant may designate one or more beneficiaries with respect to an Award by timely filing the prescribed form with the Company. A beneficiary designation may be changed by filing the prescribed form with the
Company at any time before the Participant s death. If no beneficiary was designated or if no designated beneficiary survives the Participant, then after a Participant s death any vested Award(s) shall be transferred or distributed to the
Participant s estate.         
   -8-   

(e) Performance Conditions. The Committee may, in its discretion, include performance conditions in
an Award or grant an Award upon the satisfaction of performance conditions. If performance conditions are included in Awards to Covered Employees, then such Awards may be subject to the achievement of Performance Goals established by the Committee.
Such Performance Goals shall be established and administered pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 162(m). Before any Shares underlying an Award or any Award payments subject to Performance Goals are released to a Covered Employee with
respect to a Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing that the Performance Goals for such Performance Period have been satisfied. Awards with performance conditions that are granted to Key Employees who are not Covered Employees
need not comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m).      (f) No Rights as a Shareholder. A Participant, or a transferee of a
Participant, shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Common Stock covered by an Award until such person has satisfied all of the terms and conditions to receive such Common Stock, has satisfied any applicable withholding or tax
obligations relating to the Award and the Shares have been issued (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).      (g) Termination of Service. Unless the applicable Award agreement or, with respect to Participants who reside in the U.S., the applicable employment
agreement provides otherwise, the following rules shall govern the vesting, exercisability and term of outstanding Awards held by a Participant in the event of termination of such Participant s Service (in all cases subject to the expiration
term of the Option or SAR as applicable): (i) upon termination of Service for any reason, all unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited without consideration and the vested portions of any outstanding Stock
Units shall be settled upon termination; (ii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for Cause, then all unexercised Options and SARs, unvested portions of Stock Units and unvested portions of Stock Grants shall terminate and be
forfeited immediately without consideration; (iii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than for Cause, death, or Disability, then the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be
exercised by such Participant or his or her personal representative within three months after the date of such termination; or (iv) if the Service of a Participant is terminated due to death or Disability, the vested portion of his or her
then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised within eighteen months after the date of termination of Service.      (h) Director Fees.
Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive a Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan in lieu of payment of a portion of his or her regular annual retainer based on the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date any regular annual retainer
would otherwise be paid. For purposes of the Plan, a Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer shall not include any additional retainer paid in connection with service on any committee of the Board or paid for any other reason. Such an
election may be for any dollar or percentage amount equal to at least 25% of the Non-Employee         
   -9-   

Director s regular annual retainer (up to a limit of 100% of the Non-Employee Director s
regular annual retainer). The election must be made prior to the beginning of the annual board of directors cycle which shall be any twelve month continuous period designated by the Board. Any amount of the regular annual retainer not elected to be
received as a Stock Grant or Stock Unit shall be payable in cash in accordance with the Company s standard payment procedures. Shares granted under this Section 4(h) shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Plan applicable to
Non-Employee Directors or to Participants generally (other than provisions specifically applying only to Employees).       SECTION 5.   SHARES SUBJECT
TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS  .       (a) Basic Limitations. The stock issuable under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued Shares. The
aggregate number of Shares reserved for Awards under the Plan shall not exceed 559,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11. Shares issued as Stock Grants or pursuant to Stock Units will count against the Shares available
for issuance under the Plan as 2.5 Shares for every 1 Share issued in connection with the Award.      (b) Additional Shares. If Awards are
forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Awards shall again become available for Awards under the Plan. If a Previous Plan Award is forfeited or is terminated for any other
reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Previous Plan Award shall again become available for Awards under this Plan. SARs shall be counted in full against the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan,
regardless of the number of Shares issued upon settlement of the SARs.      (c) Dividend Equivalents. Any dividend equivalents distributed under
the Plan shall not be applied against the number of Shares available for Awards.      (d) Share Limits.      (i)  Limits on Options . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Options to purchase Shares
during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with ISOs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.      (ii)  Limits on SARs . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Awards of SARs during any
Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with SARs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.      (iii)  Limits on Stock Grants and Stock Units . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive
Stock Grants or Stock Units during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 5,000,000 Shares.         
   -10-   

(iv)  Limits on Awards to Non-Employee Directors . Subject to adjustment
pursuant to Section 11, no Non-Employee Director shall receive Awards during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 50,000 Shares; provided that any Shares received pursuant to an election under Section 4(h) shall not
count against such limit.       SECTION 6.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS .      (a) Stock Option Agreement. Each Grant of an Option under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Option Agreement between the
Optionee and the Company. Such Option shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for
inclusion in a Stock Option Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Option Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify
whether the Option is an ISO or an NSO.      (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the number of Shares that are
subject to the Option and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.      (c) Exercise Price. An
Option s Exercise Price shall be established by the Committee and set forth in a Stock Option Agreement. The Exercise Price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (110% for ISO grants to 10-Percent Shareholders) on
the date of Grant.      (d) Exercisability and Term. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the
Option is to become exercisable. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify the term of the Option; provided that the term of an Option shall in no event exceed nine years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable Stock Option Agreement
provides otherwise, each Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Option upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the
Option shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the Option shall be nine years from the date of Grant. A Stock Option Agreement may provide for
accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Option can be exercised after the expiration date provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement
and no Option may provide that, upon exercise of the Option, a new Option will automatically be granted.      (e) Modifications or Assumption of
Options. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding options or may accept the cancellation of outstanding options (whether granted by the Company or by another issuer) in return for the grant of new
Options for the same or a different number of         
   -11-   

Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting
provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding Options unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and no modification of an Option shall, without the
consent of the Optionee, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Option.      (f) Assignment or Transfer of Options. Except as
otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no Option shall be transferable by the Optionee other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise
provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement, an Option may be exercised during the lifetime of the Optionee only by the Optionee or by the guardian or legal representative of the Optionee. No Option or interest therein may be assigned, pledged
or hypothecated by the Optionee during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process.       SECTION 7.   PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES  .       The entire Exercise Price of Shares issued upon
exercise of Options shall be payable in cash at the time when such Shares are purchased, except as follows and if so provided for in an applicable Stock Option Agreement:      (i) Surrender of Stock. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price or Options may be made with Shares which have already been owned
by the Optionee; provided that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, require that Shares tendered for payment be previously held by the Optionee for a minimum duration. Such Shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value.      (ii) Cashless Exercise. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made through Cashless Exercise at the Committee s
sole discretion.      (iii) Other Forms of Payment. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made in any other
form that is consistent with applicable laws, regulations and rules and approved by the Committee.      In the case of an ISO granted under the
Plan, payment shall be made only pursuant to the express provisions of the applicable Stock Option Agreement. The Stock Option Agreement may specify that payment may be made in any form(s) described in this Section 7. In the case of an NSO
granted under the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion at any time, accept payment in any form(s) described in this Section 7.         
   -12-   

SECTION 8.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS  .       (a) SAR Agreement. Each Grant of a SAR under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a SAR Agreement between the Participant and the
Company. Such SAR shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a SAR
Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). A SAR Agreement may provide for a maximum limit on the amount of any payout notwithstanding the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the SAR. The provisions of the various
SAR Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. SARs may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s compensation.      (b) Number of Shares. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the SAR pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.      (c) Exercise Price. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the Exercise Price which shall be established by the Committee. The Exercise Price of a SAR shall not
be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of Grant.      (d) Exercisability and Term. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the date
when all or any installment of the SAR is to become exercisable. The SAR Agreement shall also specify the term of the SAR which shall not exceed nine years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable SAR Agreement provides otherwise, each SAR
shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the SAR upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the SAR shall vest and become exercisable
in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the SAR shall be nine years from the date of Grant. A SAR Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s
death, Disability, or other events. SARs may be awarded in combination with Options or Stock Grants, and such an Award shall provide that the SARs will not be exercisable unless the related Options or Stock Grants are forfeited. A SAR may be
included in an ISO only at the time of Grant but may be included in an NSO at the time of Grant or at any subsequent time, but not later than six months before the expiration of such NSO. No SAR may provide that, upon exercise of the SAR, a new SAR
will automatically be granted.      (e) Exercise of SARs. If, on the date when a SAR expires, the Exercise Price under such SAR is less than the
Fair Market Value on such date but any portion of such SAR has not been exercised or surrendered, then such SAR shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion. Upon exercise of a SAR, the Participant (or
any person having the right to exercise the SAR) shall receive from the Company (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) any combination of Shares and cash, as the Committee shall determine at the time of Grant of the SAR, in its sole
discretion. The amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of Shares received upon exercise of SARs         
   -13-   

shall, in the aggregate, be equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value (on the date of
exercise) of the Shares subject to the SARs exceeds the Exercise Price of those Shares.      (f) Modification or Assumption of SARs. Within the
limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding stock appreciation rights or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock appreciation rights (including stock appreciation rights granted by another issuer) in
return for the grant of new SARs for the same or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein,
unless there is approval by the Company shareholders, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding SARs and no modification of a SAR shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such SAR.      (g) Assignment or Transfer of SARs. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law,
no SAR shall be transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement, a SAR may be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the
Participant or by the guardian or legal representative of the Participant. No SAR or interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Participant during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made
subject to execution, attachment or similar process.       SECTION 9.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS   .      (a) Amount and Form of Awards. Awards under this Section 9 may be granted in the form of a Stock Grant. Each Stock Grant Agreement shall specify the
number of Shares to which the Stock Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11. A Stock Grant may also be awarded in combination with NSOs, and such an Award may provide that the Stock Grant
will be forfeited in the event that the related NSOs are exercised.      (b) Stock Grant Agreement. Each Stock Grant awarded under the Plan
shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Grant Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Each Stock Grant shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions
that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Grant Agreements
entered into under the Plan need not be identical.         
   -14-   

(c) Payment for Stock Grants. Stock Grants may be issued with or without cash consideration or any
other form of legally permissible consideration approved by the Committee.      (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Stock Grant may or may not be
subject to vesting. Any such vesting provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Grant Agreement which may
include Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Grant Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Grant shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Grant upon completion of each year of Service
on each of the first through fifth annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Grant Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.      (e) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by
applicable law, a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in
violation of this Section 9(e) shall be void. However, this Section 9(e) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested outstanding Stock Grant Awards in the event of the Participant s
death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Grant Awards by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.      (f) Voting and
Dividend Rights. The holder of a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall have the same voting, dividend and other rights as the Company s other shareholders. A Stock Grant Agreement, however, may require that the holder of such Stock Grant
invest any cash dividends received in additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Grant with respect to which the dividends
were paid. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under Section 5.      (g) Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock grants or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock grants (including stock granted by another
issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Grants for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, no modification of a Stock
Grant shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Grant.       SECTION 10.   TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS  .       (a) Stock Unit Agreement. Each grant of Stock Units under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed
exclusively by a Stock Unit Agreement between the Participant and the         
   -15-   

Company. Such Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and
may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The
provisions of the various Stock Unit Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. Stock Units may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s other compensation.      (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Unit Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Unit Grant pertains and shall be subject to
adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11.      (c) Payment for Stock Units. Stock Units shall be issued without
consideration.      (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Award of Stock Units may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting provision may
provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Unit Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e).
Unless the applicable Stock Unit Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Unit shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Unit upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth annual anniversaries of
the vesting commencement date. A Stock Unit Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events.      (e) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holders of Stock Units shall have no voting rights. Prior to settlement or forfeiture, any Stock Unit awarded under the Plan may, at the Committee s discretion, carry with it a
right to dividend equivalents. Such right entitles the holder to be credited with an amount equal to all cash dividends paid on one Share while the Stock Unit is outstanding. Dividend equivalents may be converted into additional Stock Units.
Settlement of dividend equivalents may be made in the form of cash, in the form of Shares, or in a combination of both. Prior to distribution, any dividend equivalents which are not paid shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as
the Stock Units to which they attach.      (f) Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units. Settlement of vested Stock Units may be made in the
form of (a) cash, (b) Shares or (c) any combination of both, as determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Stock Units, in its sole discretion. Methods of converting Stock Units into cash may include (without
limitation) a method based on the average Fair Market Value of Shares over a series of trading days. Vested Stock Units may be settled in a lump sum or in installments. The distribution may occur or commence when the vesting conditions applicable to
the Stock Units have been satisfied or have lapsed, or it may be deferred, in accordance with applicable law, to any later date. The amount of a deferred distribution may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend equivalents. Until an Award
of Stock Units is settled, the number of such Stock Units shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11.         
   -16-   

(g) Creditors  Rights. A holder of Stock Units shall have no rights other than those of a
general creditor of the Company. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Stock Unit Agreement.      (h) Modification or Assumption of Stock Units. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock units or may
accept the cancellation of outstanding stock units (including stock units granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Units for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, no modification of a Stock Unit shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Unit.      (i) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable
law, Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this
Section 10(i) shall be void. However, this Section 10(i) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any outstanding vested Stock Units in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it
preclude a transfer of vested Stock Units by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.       SECTION 11.   PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION  .
      (a) Adjustments. In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration
of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a
recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to the following:      (i) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities available for future Awards under Section       (ii) the limits on Awards specified in Section       (iii) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or
securities covered by each outstanding Award; or      (iv) the Exercise Price under each outstanding SAR or Option.   
  (b) Participant Rights. Except as provided in this Section 11, a Participant shall have no rights by reason of any issue by the Company of stock
of any class or securities convertible into stock of any class, any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of         
   -17-   

any class, the payment of any stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the number of
shares of stock of any class. If by reason of an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11 a Participant s Award covers additional or different shares of stock or securities, then such additional or different shares and the Award in respect
thereof shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions which were applicable to the Award and the Shares subject to the Award prior to such adjustment.      (c) Fractional Shares. Any adjustment of Shares pursuant to this Section 11 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares. Under no circumstances shall the Company be required to authorize or issue
fractional shares and no consideration shall be provided as a result of any fractional shares not being issued or authorized.       SECTION 12.   EFFECT
OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION  .       (a) Corporate Transaction. In the event that the Company is a party to a Corporate Transaction,
outstanding Awards shall be subject to the applicable agreement of merger, reorganization, or sale of assets. Such agreement may provide, without limitation, for the assumption or substitution of outstanding Options, SARs, or Stock Units by the
surviving corporation or its parent, for the assumption of outstanding Stock Grant Agreements by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the replacement of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units with a cash incentive program of the
surviving corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested portions of such outstanding Awards at the time of the transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting provisions applicable to those
Awards, for accelerated vesting of outstanding Awards, or for the cancellation of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units, with or without consideration, in all cases without the consent of the Participant.      (b) Acceleration. The Committee may determine, at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter, that such Award shall become fully vested as to all Shares
subject to such Award in the event that a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control occurs. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award agreement, in the event that a Corporate Transaction occurs and any outstanding Options, SARs or Stock
Units are not assumed, substituted, or replaced with a cash incentive program pursuant to Section 12(a) or any outstanding Stock Grant Agreements are not assumed pursuant to Section 12(a), then such Awards shall fully vest and be fully
exercisable immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Immediately following the consummation of a Corporate Transaction, all outstanding Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent that they
are assumed by the surviving corporation or its parent.      (c) Dissolution. To the extent not previously exercised or settled, Options, SARs
and Stock Units shall terminate immediately prior to the dissolution or liquidation of the Company.         
   -18-   

SECTION 13.   LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS  .       (a) No Entitlements. A Participant s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with any Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision
of the Company to permit the individual to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to
continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards. Any Award granted hereunder is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of a Participant s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any
portion of a Participant s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain an employee, consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company
and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of any person at any time, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment
agreement (if any), and such terminated person shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan
or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (b) Shareholders  Rights. A
Participant shall have no dividend rights, voting rights or other rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to the issuance of such Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company
or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such Shares are issued, except as expressly provided in Section 11.
     (c) Regulatory Requirements. Any other provision of the Plan notwithstanding, the obligation of the Company to issue Shares or other
securities under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and such approval by any regulatory body as may be required. The Company reserves the right to restrict, in whole or in part, the delivery of Shares or other
securities pursuant to any Award prior to the satisfaction of all legal requirements relating to the issuance of such Shares or other securities, to their registration, qualification or listing or to an exemption from registration, qualification or
listing.       SECTION 14.   WITHHOLDING TAXES  .       (a) General. A Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with his or her Award. The Company shall not be required
to issue any Shares or make any cash payment under the Plan until such obligations are satisfied.         
   -19-   

(b) Share Withholding. If a public market for the Company s Shares exists, the Committee may
permit a Participant to satisfy all or part of his or her withholding or income tax obligations by having the Company withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her or by surrendering or attesting to all or a
portion of any Shares that he or she previously acquired. Such Shares shall be valued based on the value of the actual trade or, if there is none, the Fair Market Value as of the previous day. Any payment of taxes by assigning Shares to the Company
may be subject to restrictions, including, but not limited to, any restrictions required by rules of the SEC. The Committee may, in its discretion, also permit a Participant to satisfy withholding or income tax obligations related to an Award
through Cashless Exercise or through a sale of Shares underlying the Award.       SECTION 15.   DURATION AND AMENDMENTS  .       (a) Term of the Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. The Plan shall terminate at the Company s 2012
Annual Meeting of Shareholders and may be terminated on any earlier date pursuant to this Section 15.      (b) Right to Amend or Terminate
the Plan. The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The termination of the Plan, or any amendment thereof, shall not impair the rights or obligations of any Participant under any Award previously granted under the
Plan without the Participant s consent. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the Plan s termination. An amendment of the Plan shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders only to the extent such approval
is otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or rules.       SECTION 16.   EXECUTION  .       To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Plan on behalf of the Company.

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Mark Chandler   

Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Legal Services,   

General Counsel and Secretary   

-20-   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company )
common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option:  
     
             Incentive Stock Option  

Nonstatutory Stock Option  

Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule        The Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Option Shares upon Optionee s completion of one (1) year of Service measured from the Vesting Commencement Date and
(ii) the balance of the Option Shares in a series of forty-eight (48) successive equal monthly installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional month of Service over the forty-eight (48)-month period measured from the first
annual anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then the Committee shall have the right,
to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term. The decision whether or not to approve Optionee s request for any reduced work commitment
shall be at the sole discretion of the Company. In no event shall any extension of the Exercise Schedule for the Option Shares result in the extension of the Expiration Date of the Option.      Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific
duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s
Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause.        Definitions  . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned
to them in this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the
purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it
is hereby agreed as follows:      1.   Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to
purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.      2.   Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at
the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6.      3.
  Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.      4.   Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in the
Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term under
Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if such
date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i)
and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on
Friday, July 1.   

5.   Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate
(and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (i)
Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service)
during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (ii) If
Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and
distribution shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18)- month period measured from the date of
Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date.      (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is
outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the
Expiration Date.      (iv) Optionee s date of cessation of Service shall mean the date upon which Optionee ceases active performance of
services for the Company following the provision of such notification of termination or resignation from Service and shall be determined solely by this Agreement and without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including
Optionee s contract of employment, and shall not otherwise include any period of notice of termination of employment, whether expressed or implied.      (v) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the time of
Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not
been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately upon Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for
which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.      (vi) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should
Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while this Option is outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service with the Company is suspended pending an
investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period.         
   2   

6.   Special Acceleration of Option        (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically
accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those
Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent
thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves
the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in
accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent
assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Option is assumed in
connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the
aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.      (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not
otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to
this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business
structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.         
   3   

7.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding
Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by
reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and
(ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.      8.
  Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the
purchased Shares.      9.   Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or
any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased
Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a
Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company;      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of
the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price
payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares
directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction; and      (C) a promissory note payable to the Company, but only to
the extent authorized by the Committee in accordance with Paragraph 13.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the
person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate
arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.         
   4   

(b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of
Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends
and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised,
Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:      (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and      (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of
Optionee s indebtedness.      10.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with
all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise
and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be
necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company,
however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals.      11.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise
provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees
of Optionee s estate.      12.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in
writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed
to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
        
   5   

13.   Financing  . The Committee may, in its absolute discretion and without any
obligation to do so, permit Optionee to pay the Exercise Price for the purchased Option Shares by delivering a full-recourse promissory note payable to the Company. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate, the requirements
for collateral and the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion.      14.   Construction  .
The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and
the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under
the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option.      15.
  Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      16.   Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without
shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in
accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.      17.   Additional Terms Applicable to an
Incentive Stock Options  . In the event this Option is designated an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the Option:      (a) This Option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Stock Option if (and to the extent) this Option is exercised for one or
more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than death or Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an
Employee by reason of Disability.      (b) Even if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, if the Shares subject to this Option
(and all other Incentive Stock Options granted to Optionee by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, including under other plans of the Company) that first become exercisable in any calendar year have an aggregate Fair Market Value (determined for
each Share as of the date of grant of the option covering such Share) in excess of $100,000, the Shares in excess of $100,000 shall be treated as subject to a Nonstatutory Stock Option in accordance all applicable laws, regulations and rules.
        
   6   

18.   Leave of Absence .  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the following
provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:      (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under
the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.      (b) If the Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice and if the leave of absence continues for more than ninety (90) days,
then this Option shall automatically convert to a Nonstatutory Stock Option at the end of the three (3)-month period measured from the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave, unless the Optionee s right to return to active work is
guaranteed by law or by a contract.      (c) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise
remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.      19.   Further
Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.      20.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) Optionee hereby authorizes and directs Optionee s employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding Optionee s employment, the
nature and amount of Optionee s compensation and the fact and conditions of Optionee s participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number
(or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation,
administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the exercise of Options under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired upon exercise of this Option or cash from the sale of
such shares may be deposited. Optionee acknowledges that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of Optionee s residence.
Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges and understands that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for Optionee s participation in the Plan.      (b) Optionee may at any time withdraw the consents herein, by         
   7   

contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that
withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to exercise or realize benefits from the Option, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan.      21.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect
of or in connection with this Option or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Option, Optionee
expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee. This Option is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of
Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a Optionee s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.
     (b) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an
Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for
any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for
breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Option or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker designated by the
Company. In addition, Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.       
  
   8   

(For Grants Beginning September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:
     Optionee:

Grant
Date:

Type of Option: U.S.
Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price:
$               per share      Vesting Commencement Date:

Expiration Date:

Exercise Schedule  .   The Option shall vest and become
exercisable with respect to (i)                        percent (      %) of the option shares, as set forth
above (the  Option Shares ) upon Optionee s completion of                        of Service measured from the vesting
commencement date as set forth above ( Vesting Commencement Date ) and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in
                       installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional
                       of Service over the
                       period measured from the 
                      anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional
Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service.      Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty
(30) hours per week, then the Company shall have the right to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term to the extent permitted under local
law. In no event shall any extension of the exercise schedule, as set forth above ( Exercise Schedule ) for the Option Shares result in the extension of the expiration date, as set forth above, ( Expiration Date ) of the Option.
     Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement (the  Agreement ) attached hereto.        No Employment or Service Contract  . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in
Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly
reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause to the extent permissible under local law.        Definitions  .   All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Agreement or the Plan.   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board and Consultants.      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and
this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the  Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it is hereby agreed as follows:      1.
  Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the grant date, as set forth in the Notice, (the  Grant Date ) an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares
shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.      2.
  Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of seven (7) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph
4, 5 or 6.      3.   Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned,
transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in
accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.      4.   Dates of Exercise  . This Option shall vest
and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the
accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select
Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not
be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed),
Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.   

5.   Cessation of Service  . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate
(and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable:      (i)
Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months
(commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the Optionee s designated beneficiary or, if no beneficiary was designated or properly
designated or, if no designated beneficiary survives the Optionee, the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law shall have the right to
exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18) month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the
Expiration Date. Optionee may only make a beneficiary designation with respect to this Option if the Company has approved a process or procedure for such beneficiary designation for the local jurisdiction within which Optionee performs services for
the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. If no such beneficiary designation process or procedure has been approved by the Company, then, in the event of Optionee s death, this Option may only be exercised by the Optionee s estate
(to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law.      (iii)
Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but
in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date.      (iv) During the limited period of post-Service
exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service (not extended by any notice period
mandated under local law). Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been
exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately as of the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time
vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable.      (v) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or
should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while this Option is         
   2   

outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event
Optionee s Service is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the
investigation period.      (vi) For purposes of this Paragraph 5, in the event of Optionee s cessation of Service, Optionee s right
to receive additional options or to vest in the Option will end as of the date the Optionee is no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g ., active Service would not include
any period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when an Optionee is no longer actively providing Service for purposes of this Option.      6.   Special Acceleration of Option   .       (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the
effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of
this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of
the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the
Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice.
The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in
connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee
shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.   
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically
accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control,         
   3   

become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised
for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or
transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      7.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the event of a subdivision of the
outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding
Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this
Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.      8.   Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record
of the purchased Shares.      9.   Manner of Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or
any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased
Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a
Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure
pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of
the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price
payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s (or a Parent s, Subsidiary s or Affiliate s) withholding obligations         
   4   

(including income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax items
related to Optionee s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to Optionee ( Tax-Related Items )) and (II) to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale
transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than
Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or
Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all withholding or other obligations related to Tax-Related Items applicable to the Option grant, vesting, exercise or the sale of Shares, as applicable.      (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this
Option) the purchased Option Shares, (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.      (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or
Affiliate) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee:      (i) any Shares to be issued upon
such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and      (ii) if this Option is exercised in
accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness.      10.   Responsibility for Taxes  .      (a) Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Optionee s employer (the  Employer ) or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the
following: (1) withholding all applicable Tax-Related Items from Optionee s wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon
exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale (specifically including where this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above) or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Optionee s behalf pursuant
to this authorization); or (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon exercise of the Option. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related
        
   5   

Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or may take any other action required to avoid
financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. Finally, Optionee must pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of
Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s purchase of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the
sale of the Shares if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Paragraph.      (b) Regardless of any action the Company or the Employer takes with respect to any or all Tax-Related Items, Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains Optionee s
responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related
Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under
no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if Optionee becomes subject to taxation in more than
one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more
than one jurisdiction.      11.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with
all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise
and issuance and all applicable foreign laws.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having
authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall
not have been obtained.      12.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6, the
provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.
        
   6   

13.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and
addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
     14.   Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the
Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other
communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an
interest in this Option. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and
enforceable.      15.   Governing Law and Forum  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive
jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.      16.   Excess Shares  . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without
shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in
accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.      17.   Leave of Absence  . Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, to the extent permitted by local law, the following provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence:      (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become
exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave.      (b) In no event shall
this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term.         
   7   

18.   Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to
take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.      19.   Authorization to
Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  .        (a) Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the
collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of Optionee s personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan.          (b) Optionee
understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social
or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or
outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or
Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee s country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the
recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee s country. Optionee understands that Optionee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of
the Data by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative. Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering
and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of the Option under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these
Options or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your
participation in the Plan.          (c) Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement,
administer and manage Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Optionee may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the
Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to vest in or realize benefits
from the Options, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. For           
   8   

more information on the consequences of Optionee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee
understands that Optionee may contact Optionee s local human resources representative.        20.   No Entitlement or Claims for
Compensation  .      (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award are derived
solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in
the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee or benefits in lieu of Options or any
other Awards even if Options have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.      (b) This Option and the Shares subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered
compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of Optionee s salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not
limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation
for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Option and the Shares subject to the Option are an extraordinary item that do not constitute compensation of any
kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which are outside the scope of Optionee s written employment agreement (if any).      (c) Optionee acknowledges that he or she is voluntarily participating in the Plan.      (d) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an Employee, Consultant
or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of
Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any).      (e) The grant of the Option and Optionee s participation in the
Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.      (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. If the underlying Shares do not increase in value, the Option       
  
   9   

will have no value. If Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the Shares acquired upon
exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price. Optionee also understands that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between the
Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Option.      (g) In consideration of the grant of
the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Option resulting from termination of Optionee s Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of
local labor laws) and Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, Optionee shall be
deemed irrevocably to have waived Optionee s entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) Optionee agrees that the Company may require
Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker designated by the Company.      (i) Optionee agrees that
his or her rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company.      (j)
The Option and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.      21.   No Advice Regarding Grant  . The Company and the Employer have not provided any tax, legal or financial advice, nor has the Company or the Employer made any recommendations regarding Optionee s
participation in the Plan, or Optionee s acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. Optionee is hereby advised to consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan
before taking any action related to the Plan.      22.   Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to
deliver any documents related to Optionee s current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request Optionee s consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Optionee hereby consents to receive such documents
by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.      23.   Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other then English and the meaning
of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.      24.   Appendix  .
Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this         
   10   

Agreement for Optionee s country of residence. Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries
included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or
facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.      25.   Imposition of Other
Requirements  . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on Optionee s participation in the Plan, on the Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or
advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. Optionee agrees to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges that
the laws of the country in which Optionee is working at the time of grant, vesting and exercise of the Option or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax,
labor, or other matters) may subject Optionee to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that Optionee is and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.       
  
   11   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT        This Stock Grant Agreement (the
 Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan
(the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:       

Employee ID:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:  

First Vest Date:  
      
                        , 20       (the first annual
anniversary of the vesting commencement date)   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award
consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted
Shares  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
                       percent (      %) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement
shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be
immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or
otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in
Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested
Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.      3.   Special Acceleration   .       (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares
shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if   

and to the extent: (i) this Stock Grant Agreement is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, assumed by the
successor corporation (or parent thereof), or (ii) the Restricted Shares are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction
and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above.      (b) Immediately following the
effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Stock Grant Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.
     (c) If this Stock Grant Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the
number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by this Stock Grant Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in
Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company
to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      4.   Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted
Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are
acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.      5.   Withholding Taxes  . You
agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the
Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued
based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or
escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      6.   Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the
Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an
assessment of such tax consequences.         
   2   

YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR
REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.      7.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made
subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the
your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.      8.
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may
impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer
agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.      9.   Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as
the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.      10.   Representations,
Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares
may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.      11.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or
otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).      12.   Authorization to Release Necessary
Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form,
any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone
number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled,
exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or         
   3   

any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of
the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such
shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you
acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that
withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan.      13.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in
connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you
expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of
your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee,
Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to
applicable laws, the Company s Articles   of Incorporation   and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of
contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree that your rights
hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.      14.   Governing Law  . This
Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      15.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by         
   4   

confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or
registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written
notice to the other party.      16.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall
be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      17.   Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the
extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   5   

(For Grants Beginning September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:       

Employee ID:                                     

Grant Date:                                      

Grant Number:                                     

Restricted Stock
Units:                                         

Vesting Commencement Date:                                  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock
Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:
                       percent (      %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this
Agreement shall vest on [the                        anniversary of] the Vesting Commencement Date and on each
                       anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence,
the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those
of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      3.
  Termination of Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer   

actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law ( e.g. ,
active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the
Restricted Stock Units.      4.   Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically
accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection
with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are
replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting
schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the
extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is
assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.
     (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall
automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part
of its business or assets.      5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in
Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to
Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.      6.   Taxes  .      (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or
insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally         
   2   

applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related
Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no
representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any
Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your
liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or
the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction.      (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on
account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any
obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of
Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be
issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by
withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the
Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable
minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.      (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares
that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      7.   Tax and Legal Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or
representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the
Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO         
   3   

CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK
UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED
OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.      8.   Non-Transferability of
Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
     9.   Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the
Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares
(including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are
necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws.      10.   Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock
Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.
     11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the
Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties,
and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.      12.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this
Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend
equivalent payments with respect to unvested Restricted Stock Units.      13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal
Information  .      (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other
form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan.           
   4   

(b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information
about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or
directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and
managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan,
that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.
You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the
Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of
these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the
Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.        (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about
the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may
affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you
may contact your local human resources representative.        14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary
decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By
accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units,
even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.         
   5   

(b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not
intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation
or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar
payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that
does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any).      (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan.      (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or
an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement
(if any).      (e) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment
contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.      (f) The future value of the underlying
Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any
Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award.      (g) In consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the
Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such
claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim.      (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company.
     (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.
        
   6   

(j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically
transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability.      15.   Governing Law and Forum  . This
Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this
Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United
States for the Northern District of California and no other courts.      16.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the
terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with
postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other
party.      17.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and
inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      18.
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.      19.   Electronic
Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You
hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.      20.   Language  . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning
of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence.      21.   Appendix  .
Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the
countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local
law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.         
   7   

22.   Imposition of Other Requirements  .   The Company reserves the right to impose
other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the
administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant,
vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional
procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill.      23.   Acceptance of
Agreement  . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do
not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation.      *        *        *        *      You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.       PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS          
   8   

(For Grants Prior to September 2008)        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Employee ID:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:
                                          
                                (the first annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date)
     To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a
conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of
one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So
long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: twenty percent (20%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest
Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.      3.   Termination of
Service  . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.      4.   Special Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the
time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur
if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor
corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate
Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and
such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive   

(b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall
terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction.      (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this
Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction.      (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a
Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time.      (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business
structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.      5.   Settlement
of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and
until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.      6.   Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock
Units which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to
the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligations. The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      7.   Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the
income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   
  8.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished,
optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.      9.
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the
securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares         
   2   

(including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer
instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of
any state, or any other law.      10.   Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued
pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.      11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s
counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and
acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.      12.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of
this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.      13.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your
compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number),
salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your
participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite
transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited.
You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that
the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the
Company.      (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You
further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.      14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the         
   3   

Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these
Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing
or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other
purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a
right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause,
and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for
breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.
     (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.   
  15.   Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without
regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      16.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this
Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage
prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.
     17.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure
to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      18.
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   4   

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER      [Date]      [Name]      [Address]
     [Address]      Dear
                          :      [introductory text]      Your leadership team has recommended that you receive a performance-based restricted stock unit (PRSU) right with a target of
[                      ]. RSUs will be granted after the end of FY[      ] based upon the satisfaction of an
FY[      ] performance condition.      The right to receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of
certain operating income growth targets for FY[      ]. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the restricted stock units that you are granted will vest
[                      ] percent on the date of grant and
[                      ] percent on each of the next [              ]
anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely
event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY[      ], the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully
earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.      Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right to you, in its
sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or impractical, Cisco will
let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.       

[concluding text]    

Sincerely,    

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER   FISCAL 2008      [Date]      [Name]      [Address]      [Address]      Dear
                               :      [introductory text]      As an indicator of our confidence in you as a leader, recognizing your current high level of
performance as well as your future contributions, I want to tell you about the restricted stock unit component of our FY08 ongoing stock program. This component represents the right to receive a future grant of  restricted stock units  (after
the end of FY08) if an FY08 performance condition is satisfied. This right is referred to in this letter as the   performance-based   restricted stock unit right   (PRSU Right) .       I want to be the first to congratulate you on your leadership team recommending you for a  performance-based     restricted stock unit right  having a
target of  XX restricted stock units , which will be granted after the end of FY08 based upon the satisfaction of an FY08 performance condition, contingent on shareholder approval as described below. Since you may be eligible to receive a grant
of restricted stock units for the first time, I would like to review briefly the details of this program.      The right to receive a grant of a restricted
stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain operating income growth targets for FY08. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the  restricted stock units  that you are granted will vest twenty percent on the date of grant and
twenty percent on each of the next four anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. Unlike stock options, there is no monthly vesting for restricted
stock units. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is
consummated during FY08, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be
settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time.      The PRSU Right and the right to receive restricted stock units depends on our shareholders
approving the amendment and extension of Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan at the 2007 annual meeting. In the unlikely event that our shareholders do not approve the amendment and extension of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, you will not be
eligible to receive any restricted stock units. However, at such time as the shareholders do approve a plan, the Compensation and Management Development Committee may make an equitable substitute stock award to you.      Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right to you, in its
sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or impractical, Cisco will
let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you.      [concluding text]       

Sincerely,   

John Chambers   
 
  Chairman   CEO, Cisco Systems   

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL RSU GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    
    STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This
Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc.
2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

First Vest Date:  

(the date of completion of the first year of service as a member of the Board measured from the initial election or appointment date)   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock
Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: fifty percent (50%) of the
total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and upon your completion of each year of service as a member of the Board thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4
below.      3.   Termination of Service  . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board
service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.      4.   Special
Acceleration  .      (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in
Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the
Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part
of its business or assets.      5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement
of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such
issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the
meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.      6.   Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the
income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   
  7.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished,
optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.      8.
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the
securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions
to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or
any other law.         
   2   

9.   Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares
issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.      10.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s
counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and
acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.      11.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of
this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.      12.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your
compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number),
compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing
your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite
transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited.
You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that
the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the
Company.      (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in
writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.         
   3   

13.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary
decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the
Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your
compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither
the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in
any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or
otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.      14.   Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      15.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when
delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.      16.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit
of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      17.
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   4   

(Beginning Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL RSU GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This
Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc.
2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:      Grantee:

Grant Date:

Grant Number:

Restricted Stock Units:

Vest Date: The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.      To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between
the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In
consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.
  Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one
(1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . So long
as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on
the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.      3.   Termination of Service  . Except as provided
in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.      4.   Special Acceleration  .      (a)
To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction
or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.   

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the
Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part
of its business or assets.      5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement
of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such
issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the
meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.      6.   Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the
income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND
REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   
  7.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished,
optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.      8.
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the
securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions
to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or
any other law.         
   2   

9.   Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares
issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.      10.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s
counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and
acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.      11.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of
this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting.      12.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your
compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number),
compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing
your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite
transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited.
You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that
the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.      (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the
Company.      (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in
writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.         
   3   

13.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary
decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the
Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your
compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither
the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in
any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or
otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award.      (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.      14.   Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      15.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when
delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.      16.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit
of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      17.
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   4   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option      Grant Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable        Vesting Schedule        The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the
Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon
Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the four (4) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.
       REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND
SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE
SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.       Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound
by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Service Contract  .
Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights
of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this
Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,                   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:   

Title:   

OPTIONEE     

2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the
purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it
is hereby agreed as follows:      1.   Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory
Stock Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.   
  2.   Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire
at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.      3.
  Non-Transferability   .  This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.      4.   Exercisability/Vesting  .      (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the
Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.      (b) Optionee shall, in
accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6
or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.      (c)
As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global
Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve (12) months from the
date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.      5.   Cessation of Board Service .  Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains outstanding, then the
Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:      (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding, then the period for
exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of
exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.      (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this Option at the time of his or
her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to
exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death).
Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of
Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member
by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons
to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately terminate and cease to be         
   2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested in
accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.      6.   Corporate Transaction .       (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this
Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this
Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the
extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company.      (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.      7.   Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over .       (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In
Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such
fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under
Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the
consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined
below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock
appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition,
directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning
of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the
        
   3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept. Further, for purposes
of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported price per share of
Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation
right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the Option is being surrendered. Such
notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days following such delivery
date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to acquire those Option Shares
under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall accordingly issue a new stock option agreement
(substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.      8.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the
event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or
consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of
shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.      9.   Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person
shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.      10.   Manner of
Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option
is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s
sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law,
through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated         
   4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated
brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus,
if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in
order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the
Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent
or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.      (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares.
     (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons
exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.
     (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      11.   No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or
otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or
interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.      12.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto,
including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful
issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its
best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   5   

13.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3,
5, 6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s
estate.      14.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.      15.   Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in
all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications
between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this
Option.      16.   Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws
of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      17.   Excess Shares  . If the Option
Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of
an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.      18.   Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.         
   6   

(Prior to Fiscal 2009)        NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION        Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock:      Optionee:

Grant Date:

Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option       

Grant  
  Number:

Number of Option Shares:

shares      Exercise Price: $               per share      Expiration Date:

Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable        Vesting Schedule        The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the
Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon
Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the two (2) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service.
       REPURCHASE RIGHT . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND
SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE
SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE.       Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound
by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto.        No Service Contract  .
Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights
of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of
applicable law.   

Definitions .  All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this
Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan.       DATED: 
                          ,                   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

OPTIONEE     

2   

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT          Recitals        A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees,
non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary).      B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the
purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee.      C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the
meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan.       NOW, THEREFORE , it
is hereby agreed as follows:      1.   Grant of Option  . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory
Stock Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice.   
  2.   Option Term  . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire
at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7.      3.
  Non-Transferability  . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution.      4.   Exercisability/Vesting  .      (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the
Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7.      (b) Optionee shall, in
accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6
or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member.      (c)
As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or   

the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global
Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve (12) months from the
date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1.      5.   Cessation of Board Service  . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains outstanding, then the
Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions:      (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding, then the period for
exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of
exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised.      (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this Option at the time of his or
her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to
exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death).
Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the  earlier  of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of
Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (c) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member
by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons
to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the  earlier  of (i) the expiration
of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date.      (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately terminate and cease to be         
   2   

outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested in
accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below.      6.   Corporate Transaction  .      (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this
Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this
Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the
extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company.      (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,  provided  the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same.      7.   Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over  .      (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In
Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such
fully-vested Option Shares until the  earliest  to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under
Paragraph 7(b).      (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the
consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined
below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock
appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition,
directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning
of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the
        
   3   

Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept. Further, for purposes
of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported price per share of
Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over.      (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation
right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the Option is being surrendered. Such
notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days following such delivery
date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to acquire those Option Shares
under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall accordingly issue a new stock option agreement
(substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares.      8.   Adjustment in Option Shares  . In the
event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or
consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of
shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder.      9.   Shareholder Rights  . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person
shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares.      10.   Manner of
Exercising Option  .      (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option
is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions:      (i) Pay the
aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms:      (A) cash or check which, in the Company s
sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and      (B) as permitted by applicable law,
through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated         
   4   

brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated
brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus,
if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in
order to complete the sale transaction.      (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the
Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option.      (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent
or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise.      (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares.
     (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons
exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions.
     (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares.      11.   No Impairment of Rights  . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or
otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or
interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.      12.   Compliance with Laws and Regulations  .      (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto,
including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance.      (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful
issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its
best efforts to obtain all such approvals.         
   5   

13.   Successors and Assigns  . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3,
5, 6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s
estate.      14.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at
the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.      15.   Construction  . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in
all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications
between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this
Option.      16.   Governing Law  . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws
of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      17.   Excess Shares  . If the Option
Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of
an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules.      18.   Further Instruments  . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.         
   6   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK GRANT        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT        This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems,
Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows:       

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Shares:    

Vest Date:  
     
  The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date.   
    To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Shares  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award
consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted
Shares  . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement
shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. Except as provided in Section 3 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be
immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or
otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in
Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested
Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan.   

3.   Special Acceleration .       (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, but not otherwise fully vested,
such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time.      (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability then, to the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding, but not
otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time.      (c) This Stock
Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets.      4.   Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant  . Under Section 83 of the Code,
the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be
taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service.      5.   Withholding Taxes  . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole
discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy
any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to
release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied.      6.   Tax
Advice  . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying
on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING
STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.      7.
  Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares  . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s
process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not         
   2   

preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the your
death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.      8.
  Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may
impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer
agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.      9.   Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends  . Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the
Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement.      10.   Representations,
Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares
may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.      11.   Voting and Other Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or
otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any).      12.   Authorization to Release Necessary
Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any
personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number,
date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled,
exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third
parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares
acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections
different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.
        
   3   

(b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources
representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan.      13.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .      (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to
benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not
intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance,
redundancy, resignation or any other purpose.      (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan
shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any
time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages
or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any
future Award.      (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In
addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company.      14.
  Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      15.   Notices  . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when
delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s
principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.      16.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit
of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      17.
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.         
   4   

DATED:
                          ,                   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.    

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE     

5   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK UNIT        IN LIEU OF ANNUAL RETAINER        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT        This
Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc.
2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows:       

Grantee:  

Grant Date:  

Grant Number:  

Restricted Stock Units:  

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed
to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail.      In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows:      1.   Restricted Stock Units  . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock
Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan.      2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  . One-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Grant Date.      3.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon your separation from service
within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding
obligations and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law.      4.   Tax Advice  . You represent, warrant and
acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s
representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR
WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.   

5.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  . Restricted Stock Units shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. However, this Section 5 shall not preclude you from designating a
beneficiary who will receive vested Shares pursuant to this award in the event of your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Shares pursuant to this award by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.      6.   Restriction on Transfer  . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock
Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the
placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order
to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.      7.   Stock
Certificate Restrictive Legends   .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable
law or pursuant to this Agreement.      8.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  . You hereby agree that in
the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain
representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws.      9.   Voting and Other
Rights  . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your Separation
from Service.      10.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information  .      (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data )
regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or
any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the
purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration
and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or
cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your
residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.         
   2   

(b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your Separation
from Service, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.      (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further
acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan.      11.   Governing Law  . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard
to the conflict of laws principles thereof.      12.   N otices . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and
addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party.      13.   Binding Effect  . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit
of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto.      14.
  Severability  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all
other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible.       

DATED:  

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.   

By:  

Title:  

GRANTEE   

3   

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        ANNUAL RETAINER       I,
                                          
                , being a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to receive (complete either (a) or (b)
below):       

(a)  
            % (insert percentage between 25% and 100%) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the
next annual meeting of shareholders;         

(b)  
  $               (insert dollar amount between $18,750 and $75,000) of my total annual retainer for the next year of
Board service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders;        in the form of (check either (i) or (ii) below):      (i)                a fully vested deferred stock unit grant which will be granted under
the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date;      (ii)                a fully vested stock grant which will be granted under the Plan on
November       , 200     based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date.      I understand
that this election will be effective only if received by
                                       on or before
                       [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]]. I further understand that I will receive my annual retainer in the form of cash to the
extent that I do not elect to receive it in the form of a stock unit grant or stock grant under the Plan on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual meeting of shareholders on
                      , 20      .      I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock unit grant, any such stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my  separation from service  within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). I further understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock
pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock.      I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock grant, I will receive the shares representing any such stock grant on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the
annual shareholder meeting and that my receipt of a stock grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date of grant.      [I further understand that, if I elect to receive a fully vested deferred stock unit grant or a fully vested stock grant, receipt of either grant pursuant to this election is subject to approval of the amended and restated terms of the Plan
by the Company s shareholders at the November 15, 2007 annual meeting of shareholders. If such approval is not obtained, I understand that I shall instead receive my total annual retainer in cash.]       

Signature of Non-Employee Director  

Date   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        VESTING ACCELERATION POLICY        FOR        DEATH AND TERMINAL ILLNESS        AS  
      AMENDED JULY 26, 2007       Unless and until
the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco
subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity
award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.      For purposes of this policy:       

the value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is based on the difference between the exercise price of the equity awards and the closing price of
Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; and

the value of stock grants, stock units, and unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to equity awards (such shares are referred to herein as  unvested
equity award shares ) is based on the difference between the purchase price, if any, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day,
the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable.          ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OF EMPLOYEE
      Upon the death of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares
up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of death. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity
award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of death as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee held unvested options for 100,000 shares with
an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x
$100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).       ACCELERATION UPON TERMINAL ILLNESS OF EMPLOYEE       Upon the terminal illness of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up to a
specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of the terminal illness. An employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s employee life insurance provider of the accelerated life
insurance benefit which indicates 12 months or less to live. The date of terminal illness will be the date the determination is made by Cisco s employee life insurance provider. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of:
(a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of the terminal illness as to all unvested equity awards and/or
unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee holds unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date
that the employee is determined to be terminally ill was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000).   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        VESTING POLICY        FOR        LEAVES OF ABSENCE       Unless and until the Compensation
  Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including
equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the
extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.       (Effective until approximately November 2008)        SUSPENSION OF VESTING UPON AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE       The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred
to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall be suspended as of the first day of the authorized leave of absence, and the equity
award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the period the employee remains on such leave of absence.       (Effective in or around November 2008)        90 DAYS CONTINUED VESTING ON AUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCE    
  The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares
referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall continue to vest and/or become exercisable in accordance with the vesting
schedule set forth in the applicable equity award agreement during the period the employee remains on such authorized leave of absence; provided that, in no event shall any employee be entitled to vest for more than 90 days of authorized leaves of
absence during any rolling 12-month period (the  LOA Limit ).      If an employee exceeds the LOA Limit during any rolling 12-month period, the
unvested equity award shares held by such an employee shall be suspended immediately following the expiration of the LOA Limit and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares
during the remainder of the rolling 12-month period.   

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.        TRANSFER POLICY        FOR        DIVORCE       Unless and until the Compensation  
Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including
equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the
extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation.       PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF EQUITY AWARDS UPON DIVORCE       Equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards shall not be
anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process in connection with the divorce of the holder of such equity award or shares.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.6>
 3
 dex106.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Cisco Systems, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.6        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN         (As Amended and Restated Effective as of May 22, 2008)        

I.   
    PURPOSE          The Cisco Systems, Inc. Employee
Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) is intended to provide eligible employees of the Company and one or more of its Corporate Affiliates with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company through participation in a plan
designed to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ).      All
share numbers in this May 2008 amendment and restatement reflect all splits of the Stock effected through March 22, 2000, including (i) the three (3)-for-two (2) split of Stock effected on December 16, 1997, (ii) the three
(3)-for-two (2) split of Stock effected on September 15, 1998, (iii) the two (2)-for-one (1) split of Stock effected on June 21, 1999, and (iv) the two (2)-for-one (1) split of Stock effected on March 22,
2000.      The Plan became effective on the designated Effective Date and was approved by the Company s shareholders in January 1990. The
shareholders approved a 15,000,000 share increase to the Plan on November 13, 1997. When adjusted for all forward splits of the Stock effected through March 22, 2000, such approved share increase now represents 135,000,000 shares of Stock.
Forward splits of the Stock have also resulted in an increase in the remaining number of shares of Stock purchasable under the Plan (as per Section VI(b)). The Board also approved a 100,000,000 share increase to the Plan on September 9,
2003, which increase was approved by the shareholders at the 2003 Annual Meeting. When combined with the November 13, 1997 135,000,000 share addition to the Plan (adjusted on a forward stock split basis) and the September 9, 2003
100,000,000 share addition to the Plan, the total number of shares of Stock which may be issued over the term of the Plan has been increased to 321,400,000 shares.       

II.   
    DEFINITIONS          For purposes of administration
of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:        Board   means the Board of Directors of the Company.
       Cisco Entity   means the Company or any person or entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with the Company
or any person or entity with which joint enterprises are carried on or in which the Company has an interest.         
   1   

Company   means Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation, and any corporate successor to
all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock of Cisco Systems, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.        Corporate Affiliate   means any company which is either the parent corporation or a subsidiary corporation of the Company (as determined in accordance with Section 424 of the Code), including any parent or subsidiary
corporation which becomes such after the Effective Date.        Effective Date   means January 1, 1990;  provided ,
however, that any Corporate Affiliate which becomes a Participating Company in the Plan after January 1, 1990 shall designate a subsequent Effective Date with respect to its employee-Participants.        Eligible Earnings   means (i) the regular basic earnings paid to a Participant by one or more Cisco Entities, (ii) any salary
deferral contributions made on behalf of the Participant to a Code Section 401(k) Plan, Code Section 125 Plan or any nonqualified deferred compensation plan plus (iii) overtime payments, bonuses and commissions. There shall be
excluded from the calculation of Eligible Earnings: (I) all distributions from profit-sharing, nonqualified deferred compensation, welfare benefits and other employee benefit plans and other incentive-type payments and (II) all contributions
(other than salary deferral contributions made to a Code Section 401(k) Plan, Code Section 125 Plan, or any nonqualified deferred compensation plan) made by the Company or any other Cisco Entity for the Participant s benefit under any
employee benefit or welfare plan now or hereafter established. This definition shall only apply to Participants in this Plan, not a participant in the Sub-Plan.        Employee   means any person employed by the Company or any other Participating Company who receives earnings considered wages under Section 3401(a) of the Code from the Company or any other Cisco
Entity.        Participant   means any Employee of a Participating Company who is actively participating in the Plan.        Participating Company   means the Company and such Corporate Affiliate or Affiliates as may be designated from time to time by the Board.
       Stock   means shares of the common stock of the Company.        Sub-Plan   means the Company s International Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.       

III.   
    ADMINISTRATION          The Plan shall be
administered by the Board or by a committee (the  Committee ) comprised of at least two or more Board members appointed from time to time by the Board. The Plan Administrator (whether the Board or the Committee) shall have full authority
to administer the Plan, including authority to interpret and construe any provision of the Plan and to  
       
   2   

adopt such rules and regulations for administering the Plan as it may deem necessary in order to comply with the requirements of Section 423 of the
Code. Decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties who have an interest in the Plan.       

IV.   
    PURCHASE PERIODS          (a) Stock shall be offered
for purchase under the Plan through a series of successive purchase periods until such time as (i) the maximum number of shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan and the Sub-Plan shall have been purchased or (ii) the Plan
shall have been sooner terminated in accordance with Article IX.      (b) Under no circumstances shall any purchase rights granted under
the Plan be exercised, nor shall any shares of Stock be issued hereunder, until such time as (i) the Plan shall have been approved by the Company s shareholders and (ii) the Company shall have complied with all applicable requirements
of the Securities Act of 1933 (as amended), all applicable listing requirements of any securities exchange on which the Stock is listed and all other applicable requirements established by law or regulation.      (c) The Plan shall be implemented in a series of consecutive purchase periods, each to be of such duration (not to exceed twenty-four (24) months
per purchase period) as determined by the Plan Administrator prior to the commencement date of the purchase period. Purchase periods may commence at any time as determined by the Plan Administrator, including at quarterly or semi-annual intervals
over the term of the Plan. The Plan Administrator will announce the date each purchase period will commence and the duration of that purchase period in advance of the first day of such purchase period.      (d) The Participant shall be granted a separate purchase right for each purchase period in which he/she participates. The purchase right shall be granted
on the first day of the purchase period and shall be automatically exercised on the last U.S. business day of that purchase period or any earlier day the purchase right is to be exercised hereunder.      (e) An Employee may participate in only one purchase period at a time. Accordingly, an Employee who wishes to join a new purchase period must withdraw
from the current purchase period in which he/she is participating prior to the last day of the current purchase period in which the Employee participates and must also enroll in the new purchase period prior to the start date of that new purchase
period at such time and in such manner as the Plan Administrator, in its discretion, requires. The Plan Administrator, in its discretion, may require an Employee who withdraws from one purchase period to wait one full purchase period before
re-enrolling in a new purchase period under the Plan.       

V.   
    ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION          (a) Each
individual who is an Employee of a Participating Company on the commencement date of any purchase period under the Plan shall be eligible to participate in the Plan for that purchase period. The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, limit the
Employees  
       
   3   

who are eligible to participate in the Plan to those Employees who are regularly scheduled to work more than twenty (20) hours per week for more than
five (5) months per calendar year.      (b) In order to participate in the Plan for a particular purchase period, the Employee must
complete the enrollment forms prescribed by the Plan Administrator (including a purchase agreement and a payroll deduction authorization) and file such forms with the Plan Administrator (or its designate) no later than the day designated by the Plan
Administrator in its discretion.      (c) The payroll deduction authorized by a Participant for purposes of acquiring Stock under the Plan may
be any multiple of 1% of the Eligible Earnings of the Participant during the period the purchase right remains outstanding, up to a maximum equal to the lesser of (i) 10% of the Participant s Eligible Earnings per Purchase Right and
(ii) 100% of the Participant s Eligible Earnings that remain after subtracting all other amounts that are to be deducted or withheld from such Eligible Earnings per purchase right. The limitations of clause (ii) above in this Section
V(c) shall only apply to this Plan and not to the Sub-Plan. The deduction rate so authorized shall continue in effect for the entire period the purchase right remains outstanding, unless the Participant shall, prior to the end of the purchase period
for which the purchase right will remain in effect, reduce such rate by filing the appropriate form with the Plan Administrator (or its designate). The reduced rate shall become effective as soon as practicable following the filing of such form.
Payroll deductions, however, will automatically cease upon the termination of the Participant s purchase right in accordance with Sections VII(d) or (e) below.       

VI.   
    STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN          (a) The Stock
purchasable by Participants under the Plan shall, solely in the Board s discretion, be made available from either authorized but unissued Stock or from reacquired Stock, including shares of Stock purchased on the open market. The total number
of shares which may be issued under the Plan and the Sub-Plan attached hereto as  Exhibit B , in the aggregate shall not exceed 321,400,000 shares (subject to adjustment under subparagraph (b) below). Such share reserve has been adjusted
for the various forward splits of the Stock which have been effected since the Effective Date and includes the 135,000,000 share increase   1    approved
by the shareholders at the 1997 Annual Meeting and the 100,000,000 share increase approved by the Compensation Committee on September 9, 2003 and approved by the shareholders at the 2003 Annual Meeting.      (b) In the event any change is made to the Stock purchasable under the Plan by reason of (I) any merger, consolidation or reorganization or (II) any
stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, combination of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Stock as a       
     1    The shareholders originally approved a share
increase of 15,000,000 shares, but when recalculated for all forward splits of the Stock effected by March 22, 2000 ( i.e. , the three (3)-for-two (2) split of Stock effected on December 16, 1997, the three (3)-for-two
(2) split of Stock effected on September 15, 1998, the two (2)-for-one (1) spilt of Stock effected on June 21, 1999, and the two (2)-for-one (1) split of Stock effected on March 22, 2000), that share increase represents
135,000,000 shares.         
   4   

class without the Company s receipt of consideration, then unless such change occurs in connection with a Section VII(k) transaction, appropriate
adjustments shall be made by the Plan Administrator to (i) the class and maximum number of shares issuable in the aggregate over the term of the Plan and the Sub-Plan, (ii) the class and maximum number of shares purchasable per Participant
on any one purchase date, (iii) the class and maximum number of shares purchasable by any one executive officer over the term of the Plan and (iv) the class and number of shares and the price per share of the Stock subject to each purchase
right at the time outstanding under the Plan.       

VII.   
    PURCHASE RIGHTS          An Employee who
participates in the Plan for a particular purchase period shall have the right to purchase Stock upon the terms and conditions set forth below and shall execute a purchase agreement embodying such terms and conditions and such other provisions (not
inconsistent with the Plan) as the Plan Administrator may deem advisable.      (a)  Purchase Price . The U.S. Dollar purchase price
per share shall be at least equal to the  lesser  of (i) 85% of the fair market value per share of Stock on the date on which the purchase right is granted or (ii) 85% of the fair market value per share of Stock on the date the
purchase right is exercised. For purposes of determining such fair market value (and for all other valuation purposes under the Plan), the fair market value per share of Stock on any relevant date shall be the closing selling price per share on such
date, as officially quoted on the principal exchange on which the Stock is at the time traded or, if not traded on any such exchange, the closing selling price per share of the Stock on such date, as reported on the Nasdaq National Market. If there
are no sales of Stock on such day, then the closing selling price for the Stock on the next preceding day for which there does exist such quotation shall be determinative of fair market value.      (b)  Number of Purchasable Shares . The number of shares purchasable by a Participant upon the exercise of an outstanding purchase right shall be
the number of whole shares obtained by dividing the amount collected from the Participant through payroll deductions during each purchase period the purchase right remains outstanding by the purchase price in effect for that purchase period. Any
remaining amount in the Participant s account shall be automatically refunded to the Participant. However, the maximum number of shares purchasable by any Participant on any one purchase date shall not exceed 22,500 shares (subject to
adjustment under Section VI(b)), and any amount not applied to the purchase of Stock on behalf of a Participant by reason of such limitation shall be refunded to that Participant. In addition, should the Employee be an executive officer of the
Company subject to the short-swing profit restrictions of the Federal securities laws, then the maximum number of shares which such Employee may purchase over the term of the Plan shall not exceed 4,320,000 shares (as adjusted for the various
forward splits of the Stock effected since the Effective Date and subject to further adjustment under Section VI(b)). Accordingly, no such officer shall be eligible to receive purchase rights for any purchase period if the number of shares which
would otherwise be purchasable by such individual for that purchase period would result in the issuance to such individual of shares of Stock in excess of the maximum number of shares purchasable in the aggregate by such individual over the term of
the Plan.         
   5   

Under no circumstances shall purchase rights be granted under the Plan to any Employee if such Employee
would, immediately after the grant, own (within the meaning of Code Section 425(d)), or hold outstanding options or other rights to purchase, stock possessing 5% or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the
Company or any of its Corporate Affiliates.      In addition, the accrual limitations of Section VIII shall apply to all purchase rights.
     (c)  Payment . Payment for Stock purchased under the Plan shall be effected by means of the Participant s authorized payroll
deductions. Such deductions shall begin on the first pay day coincident with or immediately following the commencement date of the relevant purchase period and, unless terminated earlier pursuant to Sections VII(d) or (e) below, shall terminate
with the pay day ending with or immediately prior to the last day of the purchase period. The amounts so collected shall be credited to the book account maintained by the Company on the Participant s behalf under the Plan, but no interest shall
be paid on the balance from time to time outstanding in such book account. The amounts collected from a Participant may be commingled with the general assets of the Company and may be used for general corporate purposes.      (d)  Withdrawal from Purchase Period .      (i) A Participant may withdraw from a purchase period by filing the prescribed notification form with the Plan Administrator (or its designate) on or prior to the date required by the Plan Administrator in its discretion. No further payroll
deductions shall be collected from the Participant with respect to that purchase period, and the Participant shall have the following election with respect to any payroll deductions for the purchase period collected prior to the withdrawal date:
(A) have the Company refund, in the currency originally collected, the payroll deductions which the Participant made under the Plan during that purchase period or (B) have such payroll deductions held for the purchase of shares at the end
of such purchase period. If no such election is made, then such payroll deductions shall automatically be refunded at the end of such purchase period, in the currency originally collected.      (ii) The Participant s withdrawal from a particular purchase period shall be irrevocable and shall also require the Participant to re-enroll in the
Plan (by making a timely filing of a new purchase agreement and payroll deduction authorization) if the Participant wishes to resume participation in a subsequent purchase period.      (e)  Termination of Employment/Leave of Absence . Except as provided in Section VII(l) below, if a Participant ceases to remain an Employee while
his/her purchase right remains outstanding, then such purchase right shall immediately terminate and all sums previously collected from the Participant during the purchase period in which such termination occurs shall be promptly refunded to the
Participant. However, should the Participant die or become permanently disabled while in Employee status or should the Participant cease active service by reason of a leave of absence, then the Participant (or the person or persons to whom the
rights of the deceased Participant under the Plan are transferred by will or by the laws of  
       
   6   

descent and distribution) shall have the election, exercisable up until the end of the purchase period in which the Participant dies or becomes permanently
disabled or in which the leave of absence commences, to (i) withdraw all the funds in the Participant s payroll account at the time of his/her cessation of Employee status or the commencement of such leave or (ii) have such funds held
for the purchase of shares at the end of such purchase period. If no such election is made, then such funds shall automatically be held for the purchase of shares at the end of such purchase period. In no event, however, shall any further payroll
deductions be added to the Participant s account following his/her cessation of Employee status or the commencement of such leave. Should the Participant return to active service (x) within ninety (90) days following the commencement
of his/her leave of absence or (y) prior to the expiration of any longer period for which such Participant s right to reemployment with the Company is guaranteed by statute or contract, then his/her payroll deductions under the Plan shall
automatically resume upon his/her return at the rate in effect at the time the leave began, and if a new purchase period begins during the period of the leave, then the Participant will automatically be enrolled in that purchase period at the rate
of payroll deduction in effect for him/her at the time the leave commenced, but payroll deductions for that purchase period shall not actually begin until the Participant returns to active service. However, an individual who returns to active
employment following a leave of absence that exceeds in duration the applicable (x) or (y) time period will be treated as a new Employee for purposes of subsequent participation in the Plan and must accordingly re-enroll in the Plan (by
making a timely filing of the prescribed enrollment forms) on or before the start date of any subsequent purchase period in which he or she wishes to participate.      For purposes of the Plan: (a) a Participant shall be considered to be an Employee for so long as such Participant remains in the active employ of the Company or any other Participating Company under the Plan, and
(b) a Participant shall be deemed to be permanently disabled if he/she is unable, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of at least twelve
(12) months, to engage in any substantial gainful employment.      (f)  Stock Purchase . The Stock subject to the purchase right of
each Participant (other than Participants whose purchase rights have previously terminated in accordance with Sections VII(d) or (e) above) shall be automatically purchased on the Participant s behalf on the last U.S. business day of the
purchase period for which such purchase right remains outstanding. The purchase shall be effected by applying the amount credited to each Participant s book account, as converted into U.S. Dollars if necessary, on the last U.S. business date of
the purchase period to the purchase of whole shares of Stock (subject to the limitations on the maximum number of purchasable shares set forth in Section VII(b)) at the purchase price in effect for such purchase period.      (g)  Proration of Purchase Rights . Should the total number of shares of Stock to be purchased pursuant to outstanding purchase rights on any
particular date exceed the number of shares then available for issuance under the Plan and the Sub-Plan, the Plan Administrator shall make a pro-rata allocation of the available shares on a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis, and any amounts
credited to the accounts of Participants shall, to the extent not applied to the purchase of Stock, be refunded to the Participants, in the currency originally collected.       
  
   7   

(h)  Shareholder Rights . A Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to shares
covered by the purchase rights granted to the Participant under the Plan until the shares are actually purchased on the Participant s behalf in accordance with Section VII(f). No adjustments shall be made for dividends, distributions or other
rights for which the record date is prior to the purchase date.      (i)  ESPP Broker Account . The shares purchased on behalf of each
Participant shall be deposited directly into a brokerage account which the Company shall establish for the Participant at a Company-designated brokerage firm. The account will be known as the ESPP Broker Account. The Plan Administrator may adopt
such policies and procedures for the Plan as it determines is appropriate, including policies and procedures regarding the transfer of shares from a Participant s ESPP Broker Account before those shares have been held for the requisite period
necessary to avoid a disqualifying disposition of such shares under the U.S. Federal tax laws.      (j)  Assignability . No purchase
rights granted under the Plan shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and during the Participant s lifetime the purchase rights shall be exercisable only by the
Participant.      (k)  Merger or Liquidation of Company . In the event the Company or its shareholders enter into an agreement to dispose
of all or substantially all of the assets or outstanding capital stock of the Company by means of a sale, merger or reorganization in which the Company will not be the surviving corporation (other than a reorganization effected primarily to change
the State in which the Company is incorporated, a merger or consolidation with a wholly-owned Subsidiary, or any other transaction in which there is no substantial change in the shareholders of the Company or their relative stock holdings,
regardless of whether the Company is the surviving corporation) or in the event the Company is liquidated, then all outstanding purchase rights under the Plan shall automatically be exercised immediately prior to the consummation of such sale,
merger, reorganization or liquidation by applying all sums previously collected from Participants during the purchase period of such transaction to the purchase of whole shares of Stock, subject, however, to the applicable limitations of
Section VII(b).      (l)  Acquisitions and Dispositions . The Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute discretion and in
accordance with principles under Section 423 of the Code, create special purchase periods for individuals who become Employees solely in connection with the acquisition of another company or business by merger, reorganization or purchase of
assets and may provide for special purchase dates for Participants who will cease to be Employees solely in connection with the disposition of all or a portion of any Participating Company or a portion of the Company, which purchase periods and
purchase rights granted pursuant thereto shall, notwithstanding anything stated herein, be subject to such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator considers appropriate in the circumstances.         
   8   

VIII.   
    ACCRUAL LIMITATIONS          (a) No Participant
shall be entitled to accrue rights to acquire Stock pursuant to any purchase right outstanding under this Plan if and to the extent such accrual, when aggregated with (I) Stock rights accrued under other purchase rights outstanding under this
Plan and (II) similar rights accrued under other employee stock purchase plans (within the meaning of Section 423 of the Code) of the Company or any Corporate Affiliate, would otherwise permit such Participant to purchase more than Twenty-Five
Thousand U.S. Dollars (US$25,000) worth of stock of the Company or any Corporate Affiliate (determined on the basis of the fair market value of such stock on the date or dates such rights are granted to the Participant) for each calendar year such
rights are at any time outstanding.      (b) For purposes of applying the accrual limitations of Section VIII(a), the right to acquire
Stock pursuant to each purchase right outstanding under the Plan shall accrue as follows:      (i) The right to acquire Stock under each such
purchase right shall accrue as and when the purchase right first becomes exercisable on the last U.S. business day of each purchase period the right remains outstanding.      (ii) No right to acquire Stock under any outstanding purchase right shall accrue to the extent the Participant has already accrued in the same calendar year the right to acquire Twenty-Five Thousand U.S. Dollars
(US$25,000) worth of Stock (determined on the basis of the fair market value on the date or dates of grant) pursuant to one or more purchase rights held by the Participant during such calendar year.      (iii) If by reason of the Section VIII(a) limitations, one or more purchase rights of a Participant do not accrue for a particular purchase period,
then the payroll deductions which the Participant made during that purchase period with respect to such purchase rights shall be promptly refunded in the currency originally collected.      (c) In the event there is any conflict between the provisions of this Article VIII and one or more provisions of the Plan or any instrument issued
thereunder, the provisions of this Article VIII shall be controlling.       

IX.   
    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION          The Board or the
Compensation Committee of the Board may from time to time alter, amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan;  provided , however, that no such action shall adversely affect purchase rights at the time outstanding under the Plan; and
 provided ,  further , that no such action of the Board or the Compensation Committee may, without the approval of the shareholders of the Company, increase the number of shares issuable under the Plan (other than adjustments pursuant to
Sections VI(b) and VII(b)), alter the purchase price formula so as to reduce the purchase price specified in the Plan, or materially modify the requirements for eligibility to participate in the Plan.         
   9   

X.   
    GENERAL PROVISIONS          (a) The Plan shall
terminate upon the  earlier  of (i) January 3, 2010 or (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Plan and the Sub-Plan shall have been sold pursuant to purchase rights exercised under the Plan and the
Sub-Plan.      (b) All costs and expenses incurred in the administration of the Plan shall be paid by the Company.      (c) Neither the action of the Company in establishing the Plan, nor any action taken under the Plan by the Board or the Plan Administrator, nor any
provision of the Plan itself shall be construed so as to grant any person the right to remain in the employ of the Company or any Corporate Affiliate for any period of specific duration, and such person s employment may be terminated at any
time, with or without cause.      (d) The provisions of the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without resort to
that State s conflicts-of-laws rules.         
   10   

Exhibit B         CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.         INTERNATIONAL EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN         (Sub-Plan of the Cisco Systems, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan)        (As Amended and Restated September 9, 2003)         PURPOSE        The Cisco Systems, Inc. International Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a sub-plan of the Cisco Systems, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the
 Sub-Plan ) is intended to provide eligible employees of the Company s Foreign Subsidiaries with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company through the purchase of shares of the Company s common stock at
periodic intervals with their accumulated payroll deductions or other approved contributions.      All provisions of this Sub-Plan shall be
governed by the U.S. Plan, except as otherwise provided herein.      The Sub-Plan became effective on the designated Effective Date.   
         DEFINITIONS        The definitions provided in Article II of the U.S. Plan shall govern the Sub-Plan, except the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:        Code   means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.        Corporate Affiliate 
 means any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other business entity in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock or a capital or profit interest and with respect to which the Company possesses the power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies.        Eligible Earnings   means the regular basic earnings paid to a Participant by one or
more Foreign Subsidiaries or Cisco Entities, plus overtime payments, bonuses and commissions. There shall be excluded from the calculation of Earnings: (I) all profit-sharing distributions and other incentive-type payments and (II) all
contributions made by the Company, its Corporate Affiliates, or any other Cisco Entity for the Participant s benefit under any employee benefit or welfare plan now or hereafter established.        Effective Date   means October 1, 1996; provided, however, that any Foreign Subsidiary which elects, with the approval of the Board, to
extend the benefits of this Sub-Plan to its Employees after October 1, 1996 shall designate a subsequent Effective Date with respect to its employee-Participants.       
  
   11   

Employee   means any person employed by a Foreign Subsidiary who receives Eligible Earnings
from the Foreign Subsidiary or any other Cisco Entity.        Foreign Subsidiary   shall mean any Corporate Affiliate with non-U.S.
Employees which elects, with the approval of the Board, to extend the benefits of this Sub-Plan to its Employees. As of the Effective Date, the Foreign Subsidiaries participating in the Sub-Plan are listed on attached Schedule A.        Participant   means any Employee of a Foreign Subsidiary who is actively participating in the Sub-Plan.        U.S. Plan   shall mean the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.        ADMINISTRATION        The Sub-Plan
shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of Article III of the U.S. Plan.        PURCHASE PERIODS        The initial purchase period began on October 1, 1996. Subsequent purchase periods may commence at any time as determined by the Plan Administrator,
including at quarterly or semi-annual intervals over the term of the Sub-Plan.        ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION        Each individual who is an Employee of a Foreign Subsidiary on the commencement date of any purchase period under the Sub-Plan shall be eligible to
participate in the Sub-Plan for that purchase period.      In order to participate in the Sub-Plan for a particular purchase period, the
Employee must complete the enrollment forms prescribed by the Plan Administrator (including a purchase agreement and a payroll deduction authorization) and file such forms with the Plan Administrator (or its designate) no later than the day
designated by the Plan Administrator in its discretion. However, any Employee of a Foreign Subsidiary who is a participant in the U.S. Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date shall automatically become a Participant in the initial purchase
period under the Sub-Plan and such individual s payroll deductions under the Sub-Plan shall continue at the same rate authorized under the U.S. Plan immediately prior to the Effective Date unless the Participant shall change such rate in
accordance with Section V(c) of the U.S. Plan.        STOCK SUBJECT TO THE SUB-PLAN        The Stock purchasable by Participants under the Sub-Plan shall be made available from shares reserved under the U.S. Plan and any shares issued under the
Sub-Plan will reduce, on a share-for-share basis, the number of shares of Stock available for subsequent issuance under the U.S. Plan.         
   12   

PURCHASE RIGHTS        An Employee who participates in the Sub-Plan for a particular purchase period shall have the right to purchase Stock upon the terms and conditions set
forth below and shall execute a purchase agreement embodying such terms and conditions and such other provisions (not inconsistent with the Sub-Plan) as the Plan Administrator may deem advisable.       Purchase Price . The U.S. Dollar purchase price shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section VII(a) of the U.S. Plan.
      Number of Purchasable Shares . The number of shares purchasable by a Participant shall be determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section VII(b) of the U.S. Plan.       Payment . Except to the extent otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator,
payment for Stock purchased under the Sub-Plan shall be effected by means of the Participant s authorized payroll deductions. Such deductions shall begin on the first pay day coincident with or immediately following the commencement date of the
relevant purchase period and, unless terminated earlier pursuant to Sections VII (e) or (f) below, shall terminate with the pay day ending with or immediately prior to the last day of the purchase period. The amounts so collected shall be
credited to the Participant s individual book account under the Sub-Plan, initially in the currency in which paid by the Foreign Subsidiary until converted into U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, all purchases of Stock under the Sub-Plan are to be made
with the U.S. Dollars into which the payroll deductions for the purchase period or other approved contributions have been converted. No interest shall be paid on the balance from time to time outstanding in the book account maintained for the
Participant, except as otherwise required by law. The amounts collected from a Participant may be commingled with the general assets of the Company or the Foreign Subsidiary and may be used for general corporate purposes, except as otherwise
required by law.       Conversion into U.S. Dollars . For purposes of determining the number of shares purchasable by a Participant, the
payroll deductions credited to each Participant s book account during each purchase period shall be converted into U.S. Dollars on the purchase date for that purchase period on the basis of the exchange rate in effect on such date. The Plan
Administrator shall have the absolute discretion to determine the applicable exchange rate to be in effect for each purchase date by any reasonable method (including, without limitation, the exchange rate actually used by the Company for its
intra-Company financial transactions for the month of such transfer). Any changes or fluctuations in the exchange rate at which the payroll deductions or other approved contributions collected on the Participant s behalf are converted into U.S.
Dollars on each purchase date shall be borne solely by the Participant.         
   13   

Withdrawal from Purchase Period . Withdrawal from a purchase period shall be governed in accordance
with the provisions of Section VII(e) of the U.S. Plan.       Termination of Employment/Leave of Absence . Except as otherwise provided
under Sections VII(g) or (o) below, if a Participant ceases to remain an Employee while his/her purchase right remains outstanding, then such purchase right shall immediately terminate and all sums previously collected from the Participant
during the purchase period in which such termination occurs shall be promptly refunded to the Participant in the currency in which paid by the Foreign Subsidiary. However, should the Participant die or become permanently disabled while in Employee
status or should the Participant cease active service by reason of a leave of absence, then the Participant (or the person or persons to whom the rights of the deceased Participant under the Sub-Plan are transferred by will or by the laws of descent
and distribution) shall have the election, exercisable up until the end of the purchase period in which the Participant dies or becomes permanently disabled or in which the leave of absence commences, to (i) withdraw all the funds in the
Participant s payroll account at the time of his/her cessation of Employee status or the commencement of such leave, with the withdrawn funds to be paid in the same currency in which paid by the Foreign Subsidiary, or (ii) have such funds
held for the purchase of shares at the end of such purchase period. If no such election is made, then such funds shall automatically be held for the purchase of shares at the end of such purchase period. In no event, however, shall any further
payroll deductions or other contributions be added to the Participant s account following his/her cessation of Employee status or the commencement of such leave. Should the Participant return to active service (x) within ninety
(90) days following the commencement of his/her leave of absence or (y) prior to the expiration of any longer period for which such Participant s right to reemployment with the Foreign Subsidiary is guaranteed by statute or contract,
then his/her payroll deductions under the Sub-Plan shall automatically resume upon his/her return at the rate in effect at the time the leave began, and if a new purchase period begins during the period of the leave, then the Participant will
automatically be enrolled in that purchase period at the rate of payroll deduction in effect for him/her at the time the leave commenced, but payroll deductions for that purchase period shall not actually begin until the Participant returns to
active service. However, an individual who returns to active employment following a leave of absence that exceeds in duration the applicable (x) or (y) time period will be treated as a new Employee for purposes of subsequent participation
in the Sub-Plan and must accordingly re-enroll in the Sub-Plan (by making a timely filing of the prescribed enrollment forms) on or before the start date of any subsequent purchase period in which he or she wishes to participate.      For purposes of the Sub-Plan: (a) a Participant shall be considered to be an Employee for so long as such Participant remains in the active employ
of a Foreign Subsidiary, and (b) a Participant shall be deemed to be permanently disabled if he/she is unable, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in death or to be of continuous duration of
at least twelve (12) months, to engage in any substantial gainful employment.       Transfer of Employment . In the event that a
Participant who is an Employee of a Foreign Subsidiary is transferred and becomes an employee of the Company during a purchase period under the Sub-Plan, such individual shall continue to remain a Participant in the Sub-Plan, and payroll deductions
shall continue to be collected until the next purchase date as if the Participant had remained an Employee of the Foreign Subsidiary.         
   14   

In the event that an employee of the Company who is a participant in the U.S. Plan is transferred and
becomes an Employee of a Foreign Subsidiary during a purchase period in effect under the U.S. Plan, such individual shall automatically become a Participant under the Sub-Plan for the duration of the purchase period in effect at that time under the
Sub-Plan and the balance in such individual s book account maintained under the U.S. Plan shall be transferred as a balance to a book account opened for such individual under the Sub-Plan. Such balance, together with all other payroll
deductions or other approved contributions collected from such individual by the Foreign Subsidiary for the remainder of the purchase period under the Sub-Plan (as converted into U.S. Dollars), shall be applied on the next purchase date to the
purchase of Stock under the Sub-Plan.       Stock Purchase . The purchase of shares of Stock shall be governed by the provisions of
Section VII(f) of the U.S. Plan.       Proration of Purchase Rights . The proration of purchase rights shall be governed by Section VII(g)
of the U.S. Plan.       Shareholder Rights . Shareholder rights shall be governed by Section VII(h) of the U.S. Plan.       ESPP Broker Account . The ESPP Broker Account shall be governed by Section VII(i) of the U.S. Plan.       Additional Restrictions on Transfer of Shares to Comply with Local Law . In order to comply with local law (including, without limitation, local
securities and foreign exchange laws), the Company may require a Participant to retain the shares purchased on his or her behalf in the Participant s ESPP Broker Account until the sale of such shares.       Assignability . The assignability of purchase rights shall be governed by Section VII(j) of the U.S. Plan.       Merger or Liquidation of Company . In the event the Company or its shareholders enter into an agreement to dispose of all or substantially all of
the assets or outstanding capital stock of the Company by means of a sale, merger or reorganization in which the Company will not be the surviving corporation (other than a reorganization effected primarily to change the State in which the Company
is incorporated, a merger or consolidation with a wholly-owned subsidiary, or any other transaction in which there is no substantial change in the shareholders of the Company or their relative stock holdings, regardless of whether the Company is the
surviving corporation) or in the event the Company is liquidated, then all outstanding purchase rights under the Sub-Plan shall automatically be exercised immediately prior to the consummation of such sale, merger, reorganization or liquidation by
applying all sums previously collected from Participants during the purchase period of such transaction, as converted into U.S. Dollars, to the purchase of whole shares of Stock, subject, however, to the applicable limitations of Section  
       
   15   

VII(b). Payroll deductions or other approved contributions not yet converted into U.S. Dollars at the time of such transaction shall be converted from the
currency in which paid by the Foreign Subsidiary into U.S. Dollars on the basis of the exchange rate in effect at the time of such transaction, and the applicable limitation on the number of shares of Stock purchasable per Participant shall continue
to apply to each purchase. Should the Company sell or otherwise dispose of its ownership interest in any Foreign Subsidiary participating in the Sub-Plan, whether through merger or sale of all or substantially all of the assets or outstanding
capital stock of that Foreign Subsidiary, then a similar exercise of outstanding purchase rights shall be effected immediately prior to the effective date of such disposition, but only to the extent those purchase rights are attributable to the
Employees of such Foreign Subsidiary.       Acquisitions and Dispositions . The Plan Administrator may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, create special purchase periods for individuals who become Employees solely in connection with the acquisition of another company or business by merger, reorganization or purchase of assets and may provide for special purchase dates for
Participants who cease to be Employees solely in connection with the disposition of a portion of any Foreign Subsidiary, which purchase periods and purchase rights granted pursuant thereto shall, notwithstanding anything stated herein, be subject to
such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator considers appropriate in the circumstances.        ACCRUAL LIMITATIONS 
      Accrual limitations are governed by Article VIII of the U.S. Plan.           AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION        The
amendment and termination of the Sub-Plan are governed by Article IX of the U.S. Plan.        GENERAL PROVISIONS        All costs and expenses incurred in the administration of the Sub-Plan shall be paid by the Company or the Foreign Subsidiary.      Neither the action of the Company in establishing the Sub-Plan, nor any action taken under the Sub-Plan by the Board or the Plan Administrator, nor any
provision of the Sub-Plan itself shall be construed so as to grant any person the right to remain in the employ of the Company or any Corporate Affiliate for any period of specific duration, and such person s employment may be terminated at any
time, with or without cause.      Additional or different provisions for individual Foreign Subsidiaries may be incorporated in one or more
Addenda to the Sub-Plan. Such Addenda shall have full force and effect with respect to the Foreign Subsidiaries to which they apply. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of such an Addendum and one or more other provisions of the
Sub-Plan, other than the provisions of Article VIII, the provisions of the Addendum shall be controlling.         
   16   

The provisions of the Sub-Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to
that State s conflicts-of-laws rules, unless provided otherwise by the Plan Administrator.         
   17   

Schedule A          

   18   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-13.1>
 4
 dex131.htm
 PAGES 16 TO 83 OF THE REGISTRANT'S 2008 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Pages 16 to 83 of the Registrant's 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders 

EXHIBIT 13.1       Reports of Management       Statement of Management s Responsibility       Cisco s management has always assumed full accountability for maintaining
compliance with our established financial accounting policies and for reporting our results with objectivity and the highest degree of integrity. It is critical for investors and other users of the Consolidated Financial Statements to have
confidence that the financial information that we provide is timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Management is responsible for the fair presentation of Cisco s Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy.      Management, with oversight by
Cisco s Board of Directors, has established and maintains a strong ethical climate so that our affairs are conducted to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct. Management also has established an effective system of internal
controls. Cisco s policies and practices reflect corporate governance initiatives that are compliant with the listing requirements of NASDAQ and the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.      We are committed to enhancing shareholder value and fully understand and embrace our fiduciary oversight responsibilities. We are dedicated to ensuring
that our high standards of financial accounting and reporting, as well as our underlying system of internal controls, are maintained. Our culture demands integrity and we have the highest confidence in our processes, our internal controls and our
people, who are objective in their responsibilities and who operate under the highest level of ethical standards.       Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting for Cisco. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Management (with the participation
of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer) conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Cisco s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of July 26, 2008.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting and has issued a report on Cisco s internal control over financial reporting,
which is included in their report on the following page.       

John T. Chambers  
     
  Frank A. Calderoni   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
  September 12, 2008  
     
  September 12, 2008   
       
   16 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm           To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:
      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of shareholders  equity and of
cash flows appearing on pages 47 to 50 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended July 26, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of July 26, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions in 2008.
     A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.       
       
   2008 Annual Report 17   

Selected Financial Data      Five Years Ended July 26, 2008 (in millions, except per-share amounts)      The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes which appear on pages 47 to 82 of this
Annual Report:       
    (1) Includes net sales from Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. ( Scientific-Atlanta ) since its acquisition in
February 2006.      (2) Net income for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 included share-based compensation expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ), of $750 million, $617 million, and $836 million, net of tax, during the respective years. There was no employee share-based compensation expense under Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), prior to fiscal 2006 because the Company did not adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS 123. See Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.      (3) Net income for fiscal 2004 included a noncash charge for the cumulative effect of accounting change relating to
share-based compensation expense of $567 million, net of tax, related to the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46(R),  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46(R) ).
        
   18 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Forward-Looking Statements       The Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors
created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed
forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as  expects, 
 anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues,   endeavors, 
 may,  variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends
in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, as well as on the inside back cover of this Annual Report to Shareholders and under  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere in our Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason.       Overview       We sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based
networking and other products and services related to the communications and information technology industry. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers  business needs, including improving productivity,
reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage. Our corresponding technology focus is on delivering networking products and solutions that simplify and secure customers  infrastructures and offer integrated services. Our products and
services help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. At a high level,
we group our product offerings into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including
technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses and primarily consists of large enterprise companies, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.
     In fiscal 2008, we achieved record financial results. Our results for fiscal 2008 reflected increases in net sales, net income, and net
income per diluted share from fiscal 2007, as we have continued to achieve balance in year-over-year revenue growth from our products and services, customer markets, and geographic theaters. We believe this balance is attributable in part to the
successful implementation of our strategy. Net income and net income per diluted share increased by 10% and 12%, respectively, in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.       Strategy and Focus Areas       We believe the growth we experienced in fiscal 2008 was attributable to the continued
deployment by customers of our end-to-end architecture and the convergence of data, voice, video, and mobility into IP networks. In addition, our approach of achieving balance across products and services, customer markets and geographic theaters
contributed to our growth and strong financial position. Video applications, including IP television (IPTV), Cisco TelePresence systems, unified communications, physical security and other video products, have the potential to accelerate the growth
of bandwidth demand and to increase loads on networks, which may require upgrades to existing networks. We delivered several new products during the year, and we are pleased with the breadth and depth of our innovation across all aspects of our
business and the impact that we believe this innovation will have on our long-term prospects.      From a geographic perspective, we are
focusing on expanding our presence in the Emerging Markets theater, and we are making additional investments in emerging countries, China and India in particular. From a customer markets perspective, we are continuing to invest in the enterprise,
service provider, commercial, and consumer markets.      The investments we have made and our architectural approach are based on the belief
that collaboration and networked Web 2.0 technologies that enable user collaboration, including unified communications and Cisco TelePresence systems, and the increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and
information technology will create new market opportunities for us. As part of the second major phase of the Internet, we believe the industry is evolving as both personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked Web 2.0 technologies
help to increase innovation and productivity. We will endeavor to lead this market transition both through product development and adoption in the external customer marketplace and through our own internal adoption and use.         
   2008 Annual Report 19   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
   As we have exited fiscal 2008, we continue to see uncertain market conditions, primarily in the
United States. While it is difficult to predict, we believe it is possible that these uncertain market conditions we see in the United States may spread to our other geographies. In addition, we have seen a slowdown in capital expenditures by a few
of our service provider customers and believe there may be potential for a broader slowdown in the global service provider market in the next few quarters. Should these conditions persist or spread or such capital expenditures decline, our operating
results could be adversely affected. However, we believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in difficult business conditions, and may continue to provide us with
long-term growth opportunities. As we have done in the past, we will attempt to use the current market uncertainty as an opportunity to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending and to continue moving into product
adjacencies.       Revenue       Net sales increased by 13% in
fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. Revenue increased compared with fiscal 2007 in each of our five geographic theaters and in each of our customer markets. During the second half of fiscal 2008, we experienced slower year-over-year growth in
sales to the service provider market in the United States. Sales to the enterprise market in the United States were relatively flat in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. Revenue for the Emerging Markets theater increased significantly during
fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, due to higher shipments and recognition of previously deferred revenue. Revenue for the Asia Pacific theater increased in fiscal 2008 as our customers in this theater, particularly in China and India, continued
to invest in communications and information technology. Revenue also increased in the European Markets and Japan theaters during fiscal 2008.      The increase in our revenue in fiscal 2008 also reflected balance across our products and services. The largest proportion of the increase in net product sales in fiscal 2008 was in sales of advanced technologies. Sales of our advanced
technologies, which represented a larger proportion of our net product sales than routing, increased by 21% in fiscal 2008, due primarily to strength in sales of our unified communications and video systems products. The increase in our sales of
advanced technologies reflects our balanced product portfolio and our efforts to constantly innovate and evolve into new markets and product adjacencies. In fiscal 2008, we also experienced strength in sales of our routing products, led by our
high-end routers. The increase in switching revenue in fiscal 2008 was led by higher sales of our fixed-configuration switches.      We have
focused on expanding our service model. In fiscal 2008, our net service revenue increased by approximately 18% compared with fiscal 2007. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy,
along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.       Operating Margin       In fiscal 2008, our gross margin percentage increased compared with fiscal 2007. The increase was driven by higher product gross margin, which was due to lower
manufacturing costs and higher shipment volume, partially offset by higher sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing. Operating expenses in fiscal 2008 increased in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue compared with fiscal 2007,
primarily as a result of increased headcount-related expenses. The effects of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates also increased operating expenses. Our headcount increased in fiscal 2008, reflecting investments in sales as well as research
and development (R D), investments in our service business, and the effect of acquisitions.       Other Financial Highlights       The following is a summary of our other financial highlights for fiscal 2008:       

We generated cash flows from operations of $12.1 billion. Our cash and cash equivalents, together with our investments, were $26.2 billion at the end of fiscal
2008, compared with $22.3 billion at the end of fiscal 2007.          

20 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Critical Accounting Estimates       The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect
the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies.       Revenue Recognition       Our products are generally integrated with software that is essential to the functionality of the equipment. Additionally, we provide unspecified software upgrades and
enhancements related to the equipment through our maintenance contracts for most of our products. Accordingly, we account for revenue in accordance with Statement of Position No. 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition,  and all related
interpretations. For sales of products where software is incidental to the equipment, or in hosting arrangements, we apply the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations.
Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met:       

When persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists.  Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the
existence of an arrangement.          

Delivery has occurred.  Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery.          

The fee is fixed or determinable.  We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether
the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment.          

Collectibility is reasonably assured.  We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and
analysis, as well as the customer s payment history.         In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is
specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. When a sale involves multiple elements, such as sales of products that include services, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective
element based on its relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met. The amount of product and service revenue recognized is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple
elements and, if so, whether vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value exists. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and our ability to establish vendor-specific objective evidence for those elements could affect the timing of the revenue
recognition.      Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements,
service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our total deferred revenue for products was $2.7 billion and $2.2 billion as
of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years. Advanced
services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our total deferred revenue for services was $6.1 billion and $4.8 billion as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, respectively.      We make sales to distributors and retail partners and recognize revenue based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Our
distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. If actual credits received by our distributors and retail partners under these
programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected.       Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts and Sales Returns       Our accounts receivable balance, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, was $3.8 billion and $4.0 billion as
of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $177 million, or 4.4% of the gross accounts receivable balance, as of July 26, 2008, and $166 million, or 4.0% of the gross accounts receivable
balance, as of July 28, 2007. The allowance is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the accounts
receivable balances, and current economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay.      Our provision for doubtful accounts
was $34 million, $6 million, and $24 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. If a major customer s creditworthiness deteriorates, or if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise,
our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue.         
   2008 Annual Report 21   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
   A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return
rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007 was $103 million and $74 million, respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable. If the actual future returns were to deviate
from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected.       Inventory Valuation and Liability for
Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers       Our inventory balance was $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion as of July 26, 2008 and
July 28, 2007, respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market
based upon assumptions about future demand and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent
changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.      In addition, we
record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory.
As of July 26, 2008, the liability for these purchase commitments was $184 million, compared with $168 million as of July 28, 2007, and was included in other current liabilities.      Our provision for inventory was $102 million, $214 million, and $162 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The provision for the
liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was $97 million, $34 million, and $61 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our
products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs and our liability for purchase commitments with
contract manufacturers and suppliers and gross margin could be adversely affected. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the
risk of inventory obsolescence.       Warranty Costs       The
liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was $399 million as of July 26, 2008, compared with $340 million as of July 28, 2007. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally
covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor
costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated
based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities.      The provision for product warranties issued during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $511 million, $510 million, and $444 million, respectively. If we
experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our gross margin could be adversely affected.       Share-Based Compensation Expense       Share-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS 123(R) was as follows (in millions):       
    The determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model
is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the award, and actual and
projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. The use of a lattice-binomial model requires extensive actual employee exercise behavior data and a number of complex assumptions including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected
dividends, kurtosis, and skewness.         
   22 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
   The weighted-average assumptions, using the lattice-binomial model and the weighted-average estimated grant date
fair values of employee stock options granted during the respective years are summarized as follows:       
    The weighted-average assumptions were determined as follows:       

We used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice- binomial model consistent
with SFAS 123(R) and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 ( SAB 107 ). The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and also upon our assessment that implied
volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility.          

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our employee stock options.      

The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts.          

The estimated kurtosis and skewness are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, which affect expected employee exercise behaviors, and are
based on our stock price return history as well as consideration of various academic analyses.         Because share-based compensation expense
recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of SFAS 123(R) in future periods,
the compensation expense that we record under SFAS 123(R) may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current year.       Investment
Impairments       Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of
$21.0 billion as of July 26, 2008, compared with $18.5 billion as of July 28, 2007. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly
traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other-than-temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in
determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our intent and
ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely
affect our net income. There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income or publicly held companies during fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.      We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of July 26, 2008, our investments in privately held companies were $706 million, compared with $643 million as of
July 28, 2007, and were included in other assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We monitor these investments for impairment and make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is
required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early
stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were not material during fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.       Goodwill Impairments       Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established
valuation techniques. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the sum of the amounts assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an
annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007 was $12.4 billion and $12.1 billion, respectively. In
response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was
no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.         
   2008 Annual Report 23   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Income Taxes       We
are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, R D tax credits, tax audit
settlements, nondeductible compensation, and international realignments. Our effective tax rate was 21.5%, 22.5%, and 26.9% in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.      Effective at the beginning of the first quarter of 2008, we adopted Financial Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
( FIN 48 ), which is a change in accounting for income taxes. FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes  ( SFAS 109 ). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. As a
result of the implementation of FIN 48, we reduced the liability for net unrecognized tax benefits by $451 million and accounted for the reduction as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle that resulted in an increase to retained
earnings of $202 million and an increase to additional paid-in capital of $249 million. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.      Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax
outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the
refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision
for income taxes includes the effect of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest.      Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past
operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance
with a corresponding effect to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.      Our provision for income
taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our
deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit laws; by transfer pricing adjustments including the post-acquisition integration of purchased intangible assets from certain acquisitions into our intercompany
R D cost sharing arrangement; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, including accounting for uncertain tax positions or
interpretations thereof. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in FIN 48. In addition, FIN 48 applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid
taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely affect our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain
countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely affect our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our
income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no
assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition.       Loss
Contingencies       We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or
impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been
impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required.
     Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive
patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent
claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on
commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.         
   24 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Financial Data for Fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006        Net Sales       The following table presents the breakdown of net sales
between product and service revenue (in millions, except percentages):       
       
   2008 Annual Report  25   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
   The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products (in millions,
except percentages):       
     Gross Margin       The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages):       
    The following table presents the gross margin for each theater (in millions, except percentages):       
    (1) The unallocated corporate items primarily include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related
intangible assets and employee share-based compensation expense. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each theater because management does not include the information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.
        
   26 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative Expenses       Research and development (R D), sales and marketing, and general and administrative (G A) expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except
percentages):       
     Interest and Other Income (Loss), Net       The following table presents the breakdown of interest and other income (loss), net (in millions):       
     Discussion of Fiscal 2008 and 2007       The following discussion of fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 should be read in conjunction with the section of this report entitled  Financial Data for Fiscal
2008, 2007, and 2006.        Net Sales       Net sales
increased by 13% in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. Revenue increased in each of our five geographic theaters and in each of our customer markets in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, as we benefited from increased information
technology-related capital spending in our markets. Our sales also benefited from our entry into new markets and the development of adjacent product offerings.      Net sales by theater in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple element arrangements; the mix of
financings provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases and the net sales related to these
transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition.       Net Product Sales by Theater        United States and Canada  Net product sales in the United States and Canada theater increased during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007; however, during the
second half of fiscal 2008, we experienced slower growth in net product sales in this theater due to unfavorable economic and market conditions and the associated impact on information technology spending. In particular, during the second half of
fiscal 2008, we experienced slower year-over-year growth in sales in the service provider market in the United States due to lower spending by a few large customers, after having experienced higher year-over-year growth during the first six months
of fiscal 2008. In the enterprise market, our product sales were relatively flat in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 despite increased sales to the U.S. federal government. In the commercial market, we experienced an increase in net product
sales in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, due in part to the contribution of sales from WebEx Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ), which we acquired during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.         
   2008 Annual Report 27   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    European Markets  The increase in net product sales in the European Markets theater in fiscal 2008 compared
with fiscal 2007 was attributable to growth across our customer markets, with particular strength in the commercial market. In fiscal 2008, we experienced strong revenue growth in Germany and the United Kingdom, although we experienced slower
year-over-year growth in sales in the European Markets overall compared with fiscal 2007.       Emerging Markets  In fiscal 2008, net product sales in the
Emerging Markets theater increased compared with fiscal 2007 due to increased shipments and recognition of previously deferred revenue. We experienced continued network deployments across our customer markets in this theater, with particular
strength in Brazil and Russia. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets theater tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the net sales related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. Further,
some customers may continue to require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support in future periods, which may also impact the timing of recognition of the revenue for this theater. As a result of these and other factors, the
growth rate in net product sales for this theater in fiscal 2008 is not likely to continue consistently throughout future periods. Net product sales may fluctuate from period to period and such changes may or may not be indicative of a trend in
future net product sales for this theater.       Asia Pacific  The increase in net product sales in the Asia Pacific theater in fiscal 2008 compared with
fiscal 2007 was primarily attributable to the balanced growth in the enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets. In particular, China and India experienced strong growth in fiscal 2008.       Japan  Net product sales in the Japan theater increased in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 primarily due to service providers building out next-generation
networks.       Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products        Routers  The increase in net product sales related to routers in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher sales of our high-end routers, with strength in our Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing System and Cisco 7600
Series Routers. Sales of our high-end routers, which represent a larger proportion of our total router sales than sales of our midrange and low-end routers, increased by approximately $925 million in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. Our
high-end router sales are primarily to service providers, which tend to make large and sporadic purchases. We believe that the increase in high-end router sales is attributable to service providers scaling their network capacity to accommodate
actual and projected increases in data, voice, video traffic and implementation of next-generation networks to provide customized solutions. In fiscal 2008, our sales of our integrated services routers, which we include in the category of midrange
and low-end routers, also increased and contributed to growth in sales of our advanced technologies products, such as our security, unified communications, and wireless offerings.       Switches  The increase in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to higher sales of local-area network (LAN) fixed-configuration switches, which increased in fiscal 2008 by
approximately $815 million compared with fiscal 2007, with the increase driven primarily by higher sales of the Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3560, and 3750 Series Switches. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was a result of the
continued adoption by our customers of new technologies throughout their networks from the data center to the wiring closet, including Gigabit Ethernet, 10 Gigabit Ethernet, and Power over Ethernet. Additionally, growth in advanced technologies,
such as unified communications and wireless LANs, created demand for LAN fixed-configuration infrastructure as additional endpoints are added to the network. Net product sales related to our modular switches were relatively flat in fiscal 2008
compared with fiscal 2007.       Advanced Technologies  The increase in net product sales related to advanced technologies in fiscal 2008 compared with
fiscal 2007 was primarily due to the following:       

Sales of unified communications increased by approximately $825 million, due to the contribution of sales from WebEx, which we acquired during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2007, and due to sales of IP phones and associated messaging, conferencing and contact center software as our customers continued to transition from an analog-based to an IP-based infrastructure.          

Sales of video systems, which include solutions and systems designed to enable video-specific delivery systems for service providers, increased by approximately
$355 million. The increase was attributable to several factors, including an increase in the demand for high-definition (HD) and IP set-top boxes, network upgrades, and international growth. Our sales of video systems grew at a slower year-over-year
rate in fiscal 2008 compared with the year-over-year rate in fiscal 2007, as our sales of video systems products in fiscal 2007 benefited from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) requirements effective July 1, 2007, which required
separable security for set-top boxes sold in the United States.            
   28 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         

Sales of security products increased by approximately $180 million, primarily due to revenue from IronPort Systems, Inc., which we acquired during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2007; revenue from module and line card sales related to our routers and LAN switches as customers continued to emphasize network security; and revenue from sales of our next-generation adaptive security appliance products, which
integrate multiple technologies, including virtual private network (VPN), firewall, and intrusion prevention services, on one platform.          

Sales of application networking services increased by approximately $125 million. The increase was primarily due to higher demand from customers for wide-area
network (WAN) optimization solutions.          

Sales of wireless LAN, home networking, and storage area networking products increased by approximately $75 million, $55 million, and $50 million, respectively.
         Other Product Revenue  The increase in other product revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to an
increase in sales of cable products, Cisco TelePresence systems, and other emerging technology products.       Net Service Revenue       The increase in net service revenue in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to increased technical support service contract initiations and renewals
associated with higher product sales, which have resulted in a larger installed base of equipment being serviced, and increased revenue from advanced services, which relates to consulting support services for specific networking needs. The increase
in advanced services revenue in fiscal 2008, compared with fiscal 2007, was attributable primarily to our revenue growth in the Emerging Markets theater, advanced technologies products, and our service provider market.       Gross Margin       Gross margin percentage increased during fiscal 2008
compared with fiscal 2007 primarily due to the factors described under  Product Gross Margin  below, partially offset by the slight decrease in service gross margin percentage described below. The gross margin for each theater is derived
from information from our internal management system. The gross margin percentage for a particular theater may fluctuate and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that theater.       Product Gross Margin       The increase in product gross margin percentage
during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was due to the following factors:       

Lower overall manufacturing costs related to lower component costs and value engineering, partially offset by other manufacturing-related costs, increased product
gross margin percentage by 2.1%. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes.          

Higher shipment volume, net of certain variable costs, increased product gross margin percentage by 0.5%.          

Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing decreased product gross margin percentage by 1.7%.          

Changes in the mix of products sold decreased product gross margin percentage by 0.1%.          

Net effects of amortization of purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation expense decreased product gross margin percentage by 0.1%.
         Service Gross Margin       Our service
gross margin percentage decreased slightly in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 due primarily to advanced services constituting a higher proportion of total service revenue in fiscal 2008. Our service gross margin from technical support services
is higher than the service gross margin from our advanced services, and our revenue from advanced services may continue to increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our
customers  networking devices, applications, and infrastructures. Additionally, we have continued to invest in building out our technical support and advanced services capabilities in the Emerging Markets theater.         
   2008 Annual Report 29   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Factors That May Impact Net Sales and Gross Margin       Net product sales may continue to be affected by factors including the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the United States; changes in the
geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our
customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to
the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain advanced technologies. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation
cycles, require a broader range of services, including network design services, and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in the Emerging Markets theater also tend to make large
and sporadic purchases and the net sales related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service,
and support, especially in the Emerging Markets theater, which may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result
in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating results.      Net product sales may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to Internet businesses and
telecommunications service providers, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market, price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry, introduction and market
acceptance of new technologies and products, adoption of new networking standards, and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers  ability
to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are
operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact net product sales, see  Part I,
Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. In addition, increasing sales to our distributors and retail partners generally
results in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors and retail partners based on a sell-through method using
information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs.      Product
gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including further periods of increased growth of some of our lower-margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance
advantages; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price
competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China; changes in geographic mix of our product sales; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs; excess inventory and
obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and
operating plans. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services, the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals, and the timing of
our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business.       Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and
Administrative Expenses        R D Expenses  R D expenses increased in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher
headcount-related expenses and compensation expense related to our purchase of the minority interest in Nuova Systems, Inc. ( Nuova Systems ). See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The higher headcount-related expenses
reflect our continued investment in R D efforts for routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies. We have also continued to purchase or license technology in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a
timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may license technology from other businesses or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R D. All of
our R D costs have been expensed as incurred.       Sales and Marketing Expenses  Sales and marketing expenses in fiscal 2008 increased compared with
fiscal 2007 primarily due to an increase in sales expenses of approximately $935 million. Sales expenses increased primarily due to an increase in headcount-related expenses including the addition of sales expenses related to WebEx, which we
acquired in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased total sales and marketing expenses by approximately $250 million during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.         
   30 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    G A Expenses  G A expenses for fiscal 2008 increased, compared with fiscal 2007, primarily due to
increased headcount-related expenses and increased information technology-related spending.       Effect of Foreign Currency  Foreign currency
fluctuations, net of hedging, increased total R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by $332 million, or approximately 2.5%, in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.       Headcount       Our headcount increased by 4,594 employees in fiscal 2008, reflecting the effects of our investments in
sales and R D described above as well as increased investments in our service business and acquisitions. We expect our headcount to increase as we continue to invest in our business. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these
investments, our operating results may be adversely affected.       Share-Based Compensation Expense       Employee share-based compensation expense under SFAS 123(R) was as follows (in millions):       
    (1) Share-based compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments of $87 million and $34 million for
fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively, is disclosed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is not included in the above table.      Share-based
compensation expense included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet vested, as of July 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes model, and compensation expense for
share-based payment awards granted subsequent to July 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value using the lattice-binomial model. In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we changed our method of attributing the value of share-based
compensation to expense from the accelerated multiple-option approach to the straight-line single-option method. Compensation expense for all share-based payment awards granted on or prior to July 30, 2005 is recognized using the accelerated
multiple-option approach, whereas compensation expense for all share-based payment awards granted subsequent to July 30, 2005 is recognized using the straight-line single-option method. Employee share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2008
increased compared with fiscal 2007 primarily due to the higher average per share option values during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007.       Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets and In-Process Research and Development       The following table presents the amortization of
purchased intangible assets and in-process R D (in millions):       
    The increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses for fiscal 2008
compared with fiscal 2007 was primarily due to the additional amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions completed near the end of fiscal 2007. For additional information regarding purchased intangibles, see Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   2008 Annual Report 31   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
   Our methodology for allocating the purchase price, relating to purchase acquisitions, to in-process
R D is determined through established valuation techniques. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2008 and the in-process R D amounts recorded for these
acquisitions. In-process R D was expensed upon acquisition because technological feasibility had not been established and no future alternative uses existed.       Interest Income, Net       The components of interest income, net, are as follows (in millions):       
    The increase in interest income in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to higher average total cash and cash equivalents
and fixed income security balances in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007, partially offset by lower interest rates. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007 was due to lower interest rates. Interest expense
includes the effect of $6.0 billion of interest rate swaps that we had entered into in connection with the issuance of our fixed-rate notes due in 2011 and 2016, prior to the termination of these interest rate swaps in the third quarter of fiscal
2008, and also includes, for the period following such termination, the amortization of the hedge accounting adjustment of the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt.       Other Income (Loss), Net       The components of other income (loss), net, are as follows (in millions):       
    Our net gains on investments recognized in other income (loss), net, decreased in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal
2007 primarily as a result of market conditions. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments. The other expenses for fiscal 2008 consisted primarily of foreign exchange activities and
contributions to charitable organizations.       Provision for Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 21.5% for fiscal 2008, compared with an effective tax rate of 22.5% for fiscal 2007. The 1.0% decrease in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2008,
compared with fiscal 2007, was primarily attributable to a net tax settlement of $162 million and the tax impact of foreign operations partially offset by the expiration of the U.S. federal R D tax credit and by the tax costs related to the
intercompany realignment of certain of our foreign entities.      On July 29, 2007, we adopted FIN 48, which was a change in accounting for
income taxes. FIN 48 required a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, classification, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
our provision for income taxes, including the effects of the adoption of FIN 48 on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      For a full
reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   32 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Discussion of Fiscal 2007 and 2006       The following discussion of fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 should be read in conjunction with the section of this report entitled  Financial Data for Fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006.        Net Sales       The increase in net product sales primarily occurred
across our four largest geographic theaters as we experienced increased information technology-related capital spending by our customers in our service provider, enterprise, and commercial markets. The increase in service revenue was primarily due
to increased technical support service contract initiations and renewals associated with higher product sales, which have resulted in a larger installed base of equipment being serviced. The United States and Canada and Emerging Markets theaters
contributed approximately 70% of the total increase to net sales. The largest proportion of the increase in net product sales was related to higher sales of advanced technologies, which contributed approximately 44% of the total increase, and higher
sales of switches, which contributed approximately 30% of the total increase.      On February 24, 2006, we completed the acquisition of
Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. ( Scientific-Atlanta ), a provider of set-top boxes, end-to-end video distribution networks, and video integration systems. Scientific-Atlanta s net sales reflect the contribution of Scientific-Atlanta for the
full fiscal 2007, compared with net sales for fiscal 2006 which only included net sales subsequent to the February 2006 acquisition date, as summarized in the following table (in millions):       
     Net Product Sales by Theater        United States and Canada  The increase in net product sales in the United States and Canada theater during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was due to an increase in net product sales in the service
provider market, growth in the commercial and enterprise markets, and the additional contribution of Scientific-Atlanta. In the service provider market, we experienced balanced growth across our wireline, wireless, and cable operations. In the
commercial market, we experienced growth across all of the U.S. regional operations. During fiscal 2007, the growth rate for the enterprise market fluctuated throughout the year and was slower overall than the service provider and commercial
markets, but experienced strong growth during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 with good balance across all geographic areas. Sales to the U.S. federal government also increased compared with fiscal 2006.       European Markets  The increase in net product sales in the European Markets theater during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was due to balanced growth in net
product sales across all of our customer markets and most of our geographic areas, led by the enterprise and commercial markets. During fiscal 2007, net product sales in the United Kingdom, Germany, and France increased from fiscal 2006.   
   Emerging Markets  The increase in net product sales in the Emerging Markets theater represented the largest percentage increase of any theater in fiscal 2007
compared with fiscal 2006. The increase was primarily as a result of continued network deployment by service providers and growth in the enterprise and commercial markets as customers continue to adopt our architectural platform, led by strength in
the Middle East and Africa, Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), and Eastern Europe.       Asia Pacific  The increase in net product
sales in the Asia Pacific theater during fiscal 2007 was attributable to growth in the enterprise, commercial, and service provider markets, with China, India, and Australia experiencing strong growth during fiscal 2007.       Japan  Net product sales in the Japan theater, which represented approximately 4% of net product sales, increased slightly in fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal
2006.         
   2008 Annual Report 33   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Net Product Sales by Groups of Similar Products        Routers  The increase in net product sales related to routers in fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was primarily due to higher sales of our high-end routers, with strength in our Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Routing
System, Cisco 7600 Series, and Cisco 12000 Series products. Sales of our high-end routers increased by approximately $855 million in fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2007, our sales of our integrated services routers also
increased and contributed to growth in sales of our advanced technologies products, such as security, unified communications, and wireless.       Switches  The increase in net product sales related to switches in fiscal 2007 was primarily due to higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches, which increased during fiscal 2007 by approximately $1.1 billion compared with
fiscal 2006. Sales of LAN modular switches also increased during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006. The increase in sales of LAN switches was a result of the continued adoption by our customers of new technologies, including Gigabit Ethernet, 10
Gigabit Ethernet, and Power over Ethernet. This has resulted in higher sales of fixed-configuration switches, including the Cisco Catalyst 3750, 2960, and 3560 Series, and our high-end modular switches, the Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series.       Advanced Technologies  The increase in net product sales related to advanced technologies in fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the
following:       

Video systems sales increased by approximately $1.2 billion during fiscal 2007. The increases were attributable to several factors, including Scientific-Atlanta product sales being
included in fiscal 2006 only subsequent to its acquisition in February 2006 compared with a full year in fiscal 2007; an increase in the demand for HD set-top boxes; network upgrades; international expansion; and the FCC requirements effective
July 1, 2007, which required separable security for set-top boxes sold in the United States.         

Unified communications sales increased by approximately $390 million during fiscal 2007, primarily due to sales of IP phones and associated software as our customers continued to
transition from an analog-based to an IP-based infrastructure, and also the addition of sales from the acquisition of WebEx.         

Home networking product sales increased by approximately $240 million during fiscal 2007. Scientific-Atlanta products composed the majority of the increase in home networking
product sales during fiscal 2007.         

Sales of security products increased by approximately $240 million during fiscal 2007, primarily due to module and line card sales related to our routers and LAN modular switches as
customers continued to emphasize network security, and also due to sales of our next-generation adaptive security appliance product, which integrates multiple technologies including VPN, firewall, and intrusion prevention services on one platform.

Sales of wireless LAN products increased by approximately $190 million during fiscal 2007 primarily due to new customers, continued deployments with existing customers, and their
adoption of our unified architecture platform.         

Other sales of advanced technologies relating to sales of storage area networking products increased by approximately $110 million during fiscal 2007 and application networking
services increased by approximately $85 million during fiscal 2007.         Other Product Revenue  The increase in other product revenue
during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was primarily due to an increase in sales of optical networking products, sales of IP-based communications solutions to service providers, and the additional contribution from Scientific-Atlanta. Other
product revenue also includes sales of emerging technology products.       Net Service Revenue       The increase in net service revenue during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was primarily due to increased technical support service contract initiations and
renewals associated with higher product sales, which have resulted in a larger installed base of equipment being serviced, and increased revenue from advanced services. The increase in advanced services revenue during fiscal 2007 compared with
fiscal 2006 was attributable primarily to our revenue growth in the service provider market, the Emerging Markets theater, and advanced technologies products.       Gross Margin       Gross margin increased in absolute dollars but gross margin percentage decreased during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006
primarily due to higher net product sales from Scientific-Atlanta and also due to the factors described under  Product Gross Margin  below. The decrease in service gross margin also contributed to the lower gross margin percentage.
        
   34 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Product Gross Margin       The decrease in product gross margin percentage during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was due to the following factors:       

Changes in the mix of products sold decreased product gross margin percentage by 1.9%, with 1.7% of this decrease related to the mix impact of higher net product sales from
Scientific-Atlanta.         

Sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing decreased product gross margin percentage by 1.7%.         

Lower overall manufacturing costs related to lower component costs, value engineering and other manufacturing-related costs increased product gross margin percentage by 0.9%.

Higher shipment volume, net of certain variable costs, increased product gross margin percentage by 0.9%.         

Net effects of amortization of purchased intangible assets and share-based compensation expense decreased gross margin percentage by 0.1%.         Service Gross Margin       Our service gross margin percentage for fiscal
2007 decreased from fiscal 2006, primarily due to strategic investments in headcount as well as advanced services representing a higher proportion of total service revenue. Additionally, we have continued to invest in building out our technical
support and advanced services capabilities in the Emerging Markets theater.       Research and Development, Sales and Marketing, and General and
Administrative Expenses       R D expenses increased for fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses
reflecting our continued investment in R D efforts for routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies. Scientific-Atlanta contributed an additional $153 million of R D expenses for fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal
2006. R D expenses included employee share-based compensation expense which decreased by $57 million compared with fiscal 2006.      Sales
and marketing expenses for fiscal 2007 increased compared with fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase in sales expenses of $998 million. Sales expenses increased primarily due to an increase in headcount-related expenses. Scientific-Atlanta
contributed an additional $86 million of sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006. Sales and marketing expenses for fiscal 2007 included employee share-based compensation expense which decreased by $35 million compared
with fiscal 2006.      G A expenses for fiscal 2007 increased compared with fiscal 2006 primarily due to increased headcount-related
expenses and approximately $65 million of real estate-related charges. Also, Scientific-Atlanta contributed an additional $54 million of G A expenses for fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006.       Headcount       Our headcount increased by 11,609 employees during fiscal
2007, reflecting the investment in R D and sales described above and also reflecting increases in investments in our service business; headcount related to our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing facility; and acquisitions. Approximately 3,300 of the
new employees were attributable to acquisitions we completed in fiscal 2007.       Share-Based Compensation Expense       In fiscal 2007, employee share-based compensation expense was $931 million, and share-based compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments was $34 million.
In fiscal 2006, employee share-based compensation expense was $1 billion and share-based compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments was $87 million.       Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets and In-Process Research and Development       Amortization of purchased
intangible assets included in operating expenses was $407 million in fiscal 2007, compared with $393 million in fiscal 2006. The increase in the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses in fiscal 2007 compared with
fiscal 2006 was primarily due to the additional amortization of purchased intangible assets related to our acquisitions of Scientific-Atlanta and WebEx, partially offset by an impairment charge of $69 million in fiscal 2006. For additional
information regarding purchased intangibles, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      We recorded in-process R D of $81
million in fiscal 2007 in connection with the purchase acquisitions completed. The total estimated cost to complete the technology at the time of these acquisitions was $22 million and the risk-adjusted discount rates for the in-process R D
recorded in connection with the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2007 ranged from 16% to 29%. We recorded in-process R D of $91 million in fiscal 2006 in connection with the purchase acquisitions completed. The total estimated cost to complete
the technology at the time of these acquisitions was $95 million and the risk-adjusted discount rates for the in-process R D recorded in connection with the acquisitions completed in fiscal 2006 ranged from 17% to 22%.         
   2008 Annual Report 35   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Interest Income, Net       The components of interest income, net, are as follows (in millions):       
    The increase in interest income during fiscal 2007 compared with fiscal 2006 was primarily due to higher average
interest rates on our portfolio of cash and cash equivalents and fixed income securities, and higher average balances. The increase in interest expense was due to fiscal 2007 having a full year of interest expense on the $6.5 billion in senior
unsecured notes compared with fiscal 2006, which only included interest expense subsequent to the issuance date in February 2006. Interest expense included the effect of $6.0 billion of interest rate swaps which effectively convert fixed-rate
interest expense to floating-rate interest expense based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ).       Other Income (Loss), Net
      The components of other income (loss), net, are as follows (in millions):       
    The other expenses for fiscal 2007 and 2006 consisted primarily of contributions of publicly traded equity
securities and products to charitable organizations.       Provision for Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 22.5% for fiscal 2007, compared with an effective tax rate of 26.9% for fiscal 2006. The 4.4% decrease in the effective tax rate for fiscal 2007,
compared with fiscal 2006, was primarily attributable to the tax impact of foreign operations and the reinstatement of the U.S. federal R D tax credit partially offset by a favorable foreign tax audit settlement that occurred in fiscal 2006.
     For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and further explanation of our provision for
income taxes, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   36 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Developments        SFAS 157  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value, and enhances fair value measurement disclosure. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) 157-1,  Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and
Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13  ( FSP 157-1 ) and FSP 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 
( FSP 157-2 ). FSP 157-1 amends SFAS 157 to remove certain leasing transactions from its scope. FSP 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized
or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), until the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The measurement and disclosure requirements related to financial assets and financial
liabilities are effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The adoption of SFAS 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. We are
currently assessing the impact that SFAS 157 will have on our results of operations and financial position when it is applied to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.       SFAS 159  In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 is expected to expand the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require certain assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. The
objective of SFAS 159 is to improve financial reporting by providing companies with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge
accounting provisions. Under SFAS 159, a company may choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible items at fair value and report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each
subsequent reporting date. SFAS 159 is effective for us in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and it is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position.       SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) ) and SFAS
No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ). SFAS 141(R) will significantly change current practices regarding business combinations. Among the
more significant changes, SFAS 141(R) expands the definition of a business and a business combination; requires the acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests (including goodwill), measured at fair
value at the acquisition date; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed from contractual and noncontractual
contingencies to be recognized at their acquisition-date fair values with subsequent changes recognized in earnings; and requires in-process research and development to be capitalized at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. SFAS 160
will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, reporting them as equity separate from the parent entity s equity, as well as requiring expanded disclosures. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 are effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We are currently assessing the impact that SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will have on our results of operations and financial position.       SFAS 161  In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 133  ( SFAS 161 ), which requires additional disclosures about the objectives of using derivative instruments; the method by which the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB Statement
No.133 and its related interpretations; and the effect of derivative instruments and related hedged items on financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161 also requires disclosure of the fair values of derivative instruments
and their gains and losses in a tabular format. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption encouraged. We are currently assessing the impact
that the adoption of SFAS 161 will have on our financial statement disclosures.       IFRS  On August 27, 2008, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) announced that they will issue for comment a proposed roadmap regarding the potential use by U.S. issuers of financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). IFRS is a
comprehensive series of accounting standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under the proposed roadmap, we could be required in fiscal 2014 to prepare financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and the SEC will
make a determination in 2011 regarding the mandatory adoption of IFRS. We are currently assessing the impact that this potential change would have on our consolidated financial statements, and we will continue to monitor the development of the
potential implementation of IFRS.         
   2008 Annual Report 37   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, contractual obligations, other commitments, and the stock repurchase program on our liquidity and capital resources.
      Balance Sheet and Cash Flows        Cash and Cash
Equivalents and Investments  The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions):       
    The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily a result of cash provided by operating
activities of $12.1 billion, issuance of common stock of $3.1 billion related to employee stock option exercises and employee stock purchases, proceeds from the termination of interest rate swaps of $432 million, and excess tax benefits from
share-based compensation of $413 million, partially offset by repurchase of common stock of $10.4 billion, capital expenditures of $1.3 billion, and acquisitions of businesses of $398 million.      Our total cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $24.4 billion as of
July 26, 2008, and the remaining $1.8 billion was held in the United States. If cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be
subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. For internal management purposes, we target specific ranges of net realizable cash, representing cash and cash equivalents and
investments, net of (i) long-term debt and the present value of operating lease commitments, and (ii) U.S. income taxes that we estimate would be payable upon the distribution to the United States of cash and cash equivalents and
investments held outside the United States. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, acquisitions, customer
financing activities, working capital, and the repurchase of shares.      In August 2007 we entered into a credit agreement with certain
institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Advances under the credit agreement accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain
conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time, or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as
published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of July 26, 2008, we were in
compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. We may, upon the agreement of either the then existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase
the commitments under the credit facility up to a total of $5.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to August 15, 2014.      We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during
the period (which we refer to as shipment linearity), accounts receivable collections, inventory and supply chain management, excess tax benefits from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional
discussion, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.       Accounts Receivable,
Net  The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions) and DSO:       
    Our DSO as of July 26, 2008 was positively affected by improved shipment linearity through the end of fiscal
2008 compared with the end of fiscal 2007.         
   38 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Inventories and Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers  The following table summarizes
our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns):       
    Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods.
Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners and shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock
products. Service-related spares consist of reusable equipment related to our technical support and warranty activities. All inventories are accounted for at the lower of cost or market. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete
inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for
inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales.      We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract
manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and
suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our
requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Consequently, only a portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In addition, we
record a liability, included in other current liabilities, for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory.
The purchase commitments for inventory are expected to be fulfilled primarily within one year.      Inventory and supply chain management remain
areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our
inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels.       Financing Receivables  The following
table summarizes our financing receivables (in millions):       
    The increase in lease receivables was due to higher volume of sales-type and direct financing leases, which
typically have terms from two to three years. The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue is recognized ratably over the
period during which the related services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years. Financed service contracts increased due primarily to the financing of several large multiyear service agreements during fiscal 2008. A portion
of the revenue related to loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria.         
   2008 Annual Report 39   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Long-Term Debt  The following table summarizes our long-term debt (in
millions):       
    In February 2006, we issued $500 million of senior floating interest rate notes based on LIBOR due 2009 (the
 2009 Notes ), $3.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2011 (the  2011 Notes ), and $3.0 billion of 5.50% senior notes due 2016 (the  2016 Notes ), for an aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion. The proceeds from the
debt issuance were used to fund the acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta and for general corporate purposes. The 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes are redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. In fiscal 2008, we terminated $6.0 billion
of interest rate swaps that we had entered into in connection with the issuance of our fixed-rate notes due in 2011 and 2016 and received proceeds of $432 million, net of accrued interest, which was recorded as a hedge accounting adjustment to the
carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt and is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining terms of the fixed-rate notes. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of
July 26, 2008.       Deferred Revenue  The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions):
      
    The increase in deferred service revenue reflects an increase in the volume of technical support contract
initiations and renewals, including several large multiyear service agreements, partially offset by the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily related to shipments not having met
revenue recognition criteria, other revenue deferrals, and the timing of cash receipts related to unrecognized revenue from two-tier distributors.         
   40 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Contractual Obligations       Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, shipment linearity, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, excess tax benefits from share-based
compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors. In addition, we plan
for and measure our liquidity and capital resources through an annual budgeting process.      The following table summarizes our contractual
obligations at July 26, 2008 (in millions):       
     Operating Leases  We lease office space in several U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased
sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. Operating lease amounts include future minimum lease payments under all our noncancelable operating leases with an
initial term in excess of one year.       Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers  We purchase components from a variety of
suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts
consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of July 26, 2008, the liability for these purchase commitments was $184 million and is recorded in other current liabilities and is not included in the preceding table.
      Purchase Obligations  Purchase obligations represent an estimate of all open purchase orders and contractual obligations in the ordinary course of
business, other than commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services. Although open purchase orders are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow us the option
to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to the delivery of goods or performance of services.       Long-Term
Debt  The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the principal amount of the respective debt instruments including the current portion of long-term debt. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Other Long-Term Liabilities  Other long-term liabilities include noncurrent income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation and defined benefit
plans, noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Noncurrent income taxes payable of $749 million and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of $80 million have been included only in the total column in the preceding
table due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future payments. Noncurrent income taxes payable includes uncertain tax positions (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) partially offset by payments and certain other items.
      Compensation Expense Related to Acquisitions and Investments       In connection with our purchase acquisitions, asset purchases, and acquisitions of variable interest entities, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product,
or other milestones, or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.       Other Commitments       We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture
funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were approximately $359 million as of July 26, 2008, compared with approximately
$140 million as of July 28, 2007.         
   2008 Annual Report 41   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements       We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing
to certain customers through our wholly owned subsidiaries, which may be considered to be variable interest entities. We have evaluated our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings and have determined that there were no
significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of July 26, 2008.      Certain events can require a reassessment of our
investments in privately held companies or customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary. As a result of such events, we may be required to make additional disclosures
or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events.      We provide
financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements to channel partners and other customers. We could be called upon to make payment under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment to the third party. As of
July 26, 2008, the total maximum potential future payments related to these guarantees was approximately $830 million, of which approximately $610 million was recorded as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with
revenue recognition policies and FASB Interpretation No. 45 ( FIN 45 ).       Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2001, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 26, 2008, our Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase
of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $8.4 billion with no termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program in fiscal 2007 and 2008 is summarized
as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
    (1) Includes stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of period end.      The purchase price for the shares of our common stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders  equity. In accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 6,  Status of Accounting Research Bulletins,  we are required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings until retained earnings are zero and then as an
increase to accumulated deficit and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital. Issuance of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock incentive plans are recorded as an increase to common stock and
additional paid-in capital. As a result of future repurchases, we may report an accumulated deficit as a component in shareholders  equity.       Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements       Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents,
investments, and cash generated from operations, and our ability to access capital markets, including committed credit lines, will satisfy our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, stock repurchases, contractual
obligations, commitments, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations through at least the next 12 months. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or other relationships with unconsolidated
entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity, the availability, and our requirements for capital resources.         
   42 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         
    Investments       We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of July 26, 2008, these securities are classified as available-for-sale and
consequently are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, to the extent unhedged, reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax.      We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge for our fixed income securities and equity securities,
including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to
allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.       Fixed Income Securities       At any time, a sharp rise in interest rates or credit spreads could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the
impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income from our investment portfolio. Our fixed income instruments are not leveraged as of July 26, 2008 and are held for purposes other than trading. We monitor
our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. There were no impairment charges on our investments in fixed income securities in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.      The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities, including the effects of the interest rate swaps discussed further
under  Interest Rate Derivatives  below, as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. Market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points
( BPS ), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS. The hypothetical fair values as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007 are as follows (in millions):       
    Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard  
Poor s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. There were no impairment charges on publicly traded equity securities in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.         
   2008 Annual Report 43   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         
    Investments in Privately Held Companies       We have invested in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are
developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. These investments are primarily carried at cost, which as of July 26, 2008 was $706 million, compared with $643
million at July 28, 2007, and are recorded in other assets. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were not material during fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.      Our evaluation of investments in private companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses, including, among other factors, the nature of their
technologies and potential for financial return.       Long-Term Debt       During fiscal 2008, we terminated $6.0 billion of interest rate swaps that we had entered into in connection with the issuance of our 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes. Prior to their termination, these swaps had the effect
of converting the fixed-rate interest expense on our long-term debt to floating-rate interest expense based on LIBOR. Following the termination of the interest rate swaps, the fair value of the long-term debt effectively became subject to market
interest rate volatility. As of July 26, 2008, we had $6.0 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a carrying amount of $6.4 billion and a fair value of $6.1 billion, which fair value is based on market
prices. A hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in interest rates would decrease or increase, respectively, the fair value of the fixed-rate debt as of July 26, 2008 by approximately $120 million. However, this hypothetical change in
interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. A sharp change in rates would not have a material impact on the fair value of our $500 million variable-rate debt.       Derivative Instruments        Foreign Currency
Derivatives       Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on sales
has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased total research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses by approximately
2.5% in fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated. To reduce variability in operating expenses caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses, we hedge certain foreign
currency forecasted transactions with currency options and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several
factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect
on our operating expenses of currency movements.         
   44 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         
   We also enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign
currency fluctuations on receivables, investments, and payables, primarily denominated in Australian, Canadian, Japanese, and several European currencies, including the euro and British pound. Our market risks associated with our foreign currency
receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. Our forward and option contracts generally have the following maturities:       

Maturities   
 
    Forward and option contracts forecasted transactions related to operating expenses   
      
  Less than 18 months   
 
    Forward contracts current assets and liabilities   
      
  1 to 3 Months   
 
    Forward contracts long-term customer financings   
      
  Up to 2 Years   
 
    Forward contracts investments   
      
  Less than 2 Years   
    We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for trading purposes.       Interest Rate Derivatives       Our
interest rate derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return
consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. To realize these objectives, we may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges.       Interest Rate Swaps, Investments  We have entered into $1.0 billion of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of our investment portfolio. Under these interest rate swap contracts, we make
fixed-rate interest payments and receive interest payments based on LIBOR. The effect of these swaps is to convert fixed-rate returns to floating-rate returns based on LIBOR for a portion of our fixed income portfolio. The gains and losses related
to changes in the value of the interest rate swaps are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the changes in fair value of the underlying hedged investment. The fair values of the interest rate swaps designated as hedges of our investments
are reflected in prepaid expenses and other current assets or other current liabilities.       Interest Rate Swaps, Long-Term Debt  In conjunction with
our issuance of fixed-rate senior notes in February 2006, we entered into $6.0 billion of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of the fixed-rate debt. The effect of these swaps was to convert fixed-rate interest expense to
floating-rate interest expense based on LIBOR. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we terminated these interest rate swaps and received proceeds of $432 million, net of accrued interest, which was recorded as a hedge accounting adjustment to
the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt and is being amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining terms of the fixed-rate notes. While such interest rate swaps were in effect, their fair values were reflected in other assets or
other long-term liabilities, and prior to their termination, the gains and losses related to changes in the value of such interest rate swaps were included in other income (loss), net, and offset the changes in fair value of the underlying debt.
        
   2008 Annual Report 45   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk           Equity Derivatives       Our equity derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    We maintain a portfolio of publicly traded equity securities that are subject to price risk. We may hold equity
securities for strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment portfolio. To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives, including forward sale and option agreements.
As of July 26, 2008, we have entered into forward sale agreements on certain publicly traded equity securities designated as fair value hedges. The gains and losses due to changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other
income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment. The fair values of the equity derivatives are reflected in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other current liabilities.         
   46 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Consolidated Balance Sheets      (in millions, except par value)       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   2008 Annual Report 47   

Consolidated Statements of Operations      (in millions, except per-share amounts)       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   48 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows      (in millions)       
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   2008 Annual Report 49   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity      (in millions)       
        Supplemental Information
      In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of July 26, 2008, the Company s Board of
Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program. For additional information regarding stock repurchases, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The stock repurchases since the
inception of this program and the related impact on shareholders  equity are summarized in the table below (in millions):       

Shares of Common Stock  
      
    Common Stock and     Additional Paid-In Capital   
      
  Retained Earnings (Accumulated Deficit)  
      
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
      
  Total Shareholders  Equity   
 
    Repurchases of common stock   
      
  2,600  
      
  $  
  9,575  
      
  $  
  44,004  
      
  $  

$  
  53,579   
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   50 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    1. Basis of Presentation       The fiscal year for Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company  or  Cisco ) is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in July. Fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 were 52-week fiscal years. The Consolidated
Financial Statements include the accounts of Cisco and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis in the
following theaters: United States and Canada; European Markets; Emerging Markets; Asia Pacific; and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS).       2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies        (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents  The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of less than three months at the
date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with various financial institutions.       (b) Investments  The
Company s investments include government and government agency securities, corporate debt securities, asset-backed securities, municipal notes and bonds, and publicly traded equity securities. These investments are held in the custody of
several major financial institutions. The specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of fixed income securities disposed of. The weighted-average method is used to determine the cost basis of publicly traded equity securities
disposed of. At July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, the Company s investments were classified as available-for-sale and these investments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these
investments, to the extent the investments are unhedged, are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax.      The Company recognizes an impairment charge when a decline in the fair value of its investments below the cost basis is judged to be other-than-temporary. The Company considers various factors in determining whether to recognize an
impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than the Company s cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and the Company s intent and ability to hold
the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.      The Company also has investments in
privately held companies. These investments are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are primarily carried at cost. The Company monitors these investments for impairment and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values
if the Company determines that an impairment charge is required based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies.       (c) Inventories  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost, on a first-in, first-out basis. The Company provides inventory write-downs based on excess
and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. The write down is measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market based upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for
inventory, which is a component of cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower-cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that
newly established cost basis. In addition, the Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of the Company s future demand
forecasts consistent with its valuation of excess and obsolete inventory.       (d) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  The allowance for doubtful accounts
is based on the Company s assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, the age of the accounts receivable balances, and
current economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay.       (e) Financing Receivables and Guarantees  The Company provides
financing arrangements, including leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. Lease receivables primarily represent sales-type and direct-financing leases. Leases and
loans typically have two- to three-year terms and are usually collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. The Company maintains an allowance for uncollectible financing receivables based on a variety of factors, including the
risk rating of the portfolio, macroeconomic conditions, historical experience, and other market factors. The Company also provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements to channel partners and other
customers. The Company could be called upon to make payment under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment to the third party. See Note 6.         
   2008 Annual Report 51   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (f) Depreciation and Amortization  Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation
and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the following periods:       

Period    
 
    Buildings   
      
  25 years   
 
    Furniture and fixtures   
      
  5 years   
 
    Production, engineering, and other equipment   
      
  Up to 5 years   
 
    Computer equipment and related software   
      
  30 to 36 months   
 
    Operating lease assets   
      
  Based on lease term  generally up to 3 years   
 
    Depreciation and amortization of leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of remaining     lease term or 5 years    
     (g) Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets  Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and
during the period between annual tests in certain circumstances, and written down when impaired. Based on the impairment tests performed, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006. Purchased intangible assets other than
goodwill are amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the
respective assets, generally two to seven years.       (h) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets
to be held and used are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of
undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets that management expects to hold and use is based on
the fair value of the asset. Long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.       (i) Derivative Instruments  The Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and measures those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For a derivative instrument designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting
loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to the risk being hedged. For a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. For derivative instruments that are not designated as
accounting hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings in the period of change.       (j) Fair Value of Financial Instruments  The fair value
of certain of the Company s financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accrued compensation, and other current liabilities, approximates the carrying amount because of their short maturities. In addition, the fair value of the
Company s loan receivables, and financed service contracts also approximate the carrying amount. The fair values of fixed income investments, publicly traded equity securities, and the Company s long-term debt are determined using quoted
market prices for those securities or similar financial instruments.         
   52 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (k) Minority Interest  The Company consolidates its investment in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and
its affiliates ( SOFTBANK ). As of July 26, 2008, minority interest of $49 million represents SOFTBANK s share of the venture fund.       (l) Foreign Currency Translation  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment, where that local currency is the functional currency, are translated to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in
effect at the balance sheet date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates during the year.
Remeasurement adjustments are recorded in other income (loss), net.       (m) Concentrations of Risk  Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with
several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions with reputable credit and
therefore bear minimal credit risk. The Company seeks to mitigate such risks by spreading its risk across multiple counterparties and monitoring the risk profiles of these counterparties.      The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and, with the exception of certain financing transactions, does not require collateral
from its customers. The Company s customers are primarily in the enterprise, service provider, and commercial markets. The Company receives certain of its components from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on a limited number of
contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide manufacturing services for its products. The inability of a contract manufacturer or supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could materially impact future operating results.   
   (n) Revenue Recognition  The Company s products are generally integrated with software that is essential to the functionality of the equipment.
Additionally, the Company provides unspecified software upgrades and enhancements related to the equipment through its maintenance contracts for most of its products. Accordingly, the Company accounts for revenue in accordance with Statement of
Position No. 97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations. For sales of products where software is incidental to the equipment, or in hosting arrangements, the Company applies the provisions of Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 104,  Revenue Recognition,  and all related interpretations.      The Company recognizes revenue when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer,
revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years.
Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance.      When a sale involves multiple elements, such as sales
of products that include services, the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each respective element based on its relative fair value and recognized when revenue recognition criteria for each element are met. Fair value for each element is
established based on the sales price charged when the same element is sold separately.      The Company uses distributors that stock inventory
and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, certain products are sold through retail partners. The Company refers to these sales through distributors and retail partners as its two-tier system of
sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Distributors and retail partners participate in various cooperative marketing and other
programs, and the Company maintains estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. The Company accrues for warranty costs, sales returns, and other allowances based on its historical experience.         
   2008 Annual Report 53   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (o) Advertising Costs  The Company expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs were not
material for all years presented.       (p) Share-Based Compensation Expense  SFAS 123(R) requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense
for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( employee stock purchase rights ) based on estimated fair values.
SFAS 123(R) requires companies to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value of awards that are ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense over the requisite service
periods in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations.      Share-based compensation expense recognized in the Company s
Consolidated Statements of Operations for all years presented included compensation expense for share-based payment awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, July 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with
the pro forma provisions of SFAS 123, and compensation expense for the share-based payment awards granted subsequent to July 30, 2005 based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123(R). In conjunction
with the adoption of SFAS 123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its method of attributing the value of share-based compensation to expense from the accelerated multiple-option approach to the straight-line single-option method.
Compensation expense for all share-based payment awards granted on or prior to July 30, 2005 will continue to be recognized using the accelerated multiple-option approach while compensation expense for all share-based payment awards granted
subsequent to July 30, 2005 is recognized using the straight-line single-option method. Because share-based compensation expense recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been
reduced for forfeitures.      Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company also changed its method of valuation for share-based awards granted
beginning in fiscal 2006 to a lattice-binomial option-pricing model ( lattice-binomial model ) from the Black-Scholes option-pricing model ( Black-Scholes model ) which was previously used for the Company s pro forma
information required under SFAS 123. The Company s determination of fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the Company s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.
Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company s employee stock options have certain characteristics that are
significantly different from traded options and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management s opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the fair
value of the Company s employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed
in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.      The Company has elected to apply the alternative transition method provided in FASB
Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3  Transition Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards  for calculating the tax effects of share-based compensation pursuant to SFAS 123(R). The alternative transition
method includes simplified methods to establish the beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital pool ( APIC pool ) related to the tax effects of employee share-based compensation, and to determine the subsequent impact on the APIC
pool and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows of the tax effects of employee share-based compensation awards that are outstanding upon adoption of SFAS 123(R).       (q) Software Development Costs  Software development costs required to be capitalized pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or
Otherwise Marketed,  have not been material to date. Software development costs for internal use required to be capitalized pursuant to Statement of Position No. 98-1,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use,  have also not been material to date.         
   54 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (r) Income Taxes  Income tax expense is based on pretax financial accounting income. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will
more likely than not be realized.      On July 29, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which is a change in accounting for income taxes. FIN
48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS 109. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence
indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than
50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company will classify the liability for unrecognized tax benefits as current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. Interest and penalties related to
uncertain tax positions are recognized in the provision for income taxes. See Note 13.       (s) Computation of Net Income per Share  Basic net income per
share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during
the period. Dilutive potential common shares primarily consist of employee stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units.      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128,  Earnings per Share,  requires that employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments granted by the Company be treated as potential
common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options which is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock
method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded
in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are assumed to be used to repurchase shares.       (t) Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46 ), in January 2003. FIN 46 requires that if an entity is the primary
beneficiary of a variable interest entity, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the variable interest entity should be included in the consolidated financial statements of the entity. FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),
 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  ( FIN 46(R) ), was issued in December 2003. The Company adopted FIN 46(R) effective January 24, 2004. For additional information regarding variable interest entities, see Note
10.       (u) Use of Estimates  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for the following, among others:       

Revenue recognition          

Allowance for doubtful accounts and sales returns          

Inventory valuation and liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers          

Warranty costs          

Share-based compensation expense          

Investment impairments          

Goodwill impairments          

Income taxes          

Loss contingencies         The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially from management s estimates.         
   2008 Annual Report 55   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (v) Recent Accounting Pronouncements         SFAS 157   In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value,
and enhances fair value measurement disclosure. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP ) 157-1,  Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That
Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13  ( FSP 157-1 ) and FSP 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157  ( FSP 157-2 ). FSP 157-1 amends
SFAS 157 to remove certain leasing transactions from its scope. FSP 157-2 delays the effective date of SFAS 157 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually), until the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The measurement and disclosure requirements related to financial assets and financial liabilities are effective for the Company
in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The adoption of SFAS 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s results of operations or financial position. The Company is currently
assessing the impact that SFAS 157 will have on its results of operations and financial position when it is applied to nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010.        SFAS 159   In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 is expected to expand the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require certain assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. The
objective of SFAS 159 is to improve financial reporting by providing companies with the opportunity to mitigate volatility in reported earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently without having to apply complex hedge
accounting provisions. Under SFAS 159, a company may choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible items at fair value and report unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each
subsequent reporting date. SFAS 159 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and it is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s results of operations or financial position.        SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160   In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) )
and SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ). SFAS 141(R) will significantly change current practices regarding business combinations.
Among the more significant changes, SFAS 141(R) expands the definition of a business and a business combination; requires the acquirer to recognize the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests (including goodwill), measured
at fair value at the acquisition date; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed from contractual and noncontractual
contingencies to be recognized at their acquisition-date fair values with subsequent changes recognized in earnings; and requires in-process research and development to be capitalized at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. SFAS 160
will change the accounting and reporting for minority interests, reporting them as equity separate from the parent entity s equity, as well as requiring expanded disclosures. SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 are effective for financial statements
issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company is currently assessing the impact that SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will have on its results of operations and financial position.        SFAS 161   In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 133  ( SFAS 161 ), which requires additional disclosures about the objectives of using derivative instruments; the method by which the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB
Statement No.133 and its related interpretations; and the effect of derivative instruments and related hedged items on financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161 also requires disclosure of the fair values of derivative
instruments and their gains and losses in a tabular format. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early adoption encouraged. The Company is currently
assessing the impact that the adoption of SFAS 161 will have on its financial statement disclosures.       (w) Reclassifications  Certain
reclassifications have been made to prior year balances in order to conform to the current year s presentation.         
   56 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    3. Business Combinations        (a) Purchase Acquisitions       Under the terms of the definitive agreements related to the Company s purchase
acquisitions and asset purchases completed during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, the purchase consideration consisted of one or more of cash, shares of Cisco common stock, and fully vested stock options assumed.      A summary of the purchase acquisitions and asset purchases completed in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 is as follows (in millions):       
    The purchase consideration for the Company s purchase acquisitions and asset purchases is also allocated to
tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed.         
   2008 Annual Report 57   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    Fiscal 2008        

The Company acquired Navini Networks, Inc. to extend the Company s WiMAX solutions for service providers.          

The Company acquired Securent, Inc. to allow the Company to offer its enterprise customers policy management software solutions, which are designed to allow
enterprises to administer, enforce, and audit access to data, communications, and applications across different types of information technology (IT) environments.          Fiscal 2007        

The Company acquired Arroyo Video Solutions, Inc. to enable carriers to accelerate the creation and distribution of network-delivered entertainment, interactive
media, and advertising services across the growing portfolio of televisions, personal computers, and mobile handsets.          

The Company acquired IronPort Systems, Inc. to extend the Company s security portfolio in email and messaging security solutions.      

The Company acquired Reactivity, Inc. to complement and extend the Company s application networking services portfolio within advanced technologies.

The Company acquired WebEx Communications, Inc., a provider of on-demand collaboration applications. WebEx s network-based solution for delivering
business-to-business collaboration extends the Company s unified communications portfolio, particularly within the small and medium-sized business (SMB) market.          Fiscal 2006        

The Company acquired KiSS Technology A/S to develop networked entertainment products for the consumer.          

The Company acquired Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. to create an end-to-end solution for carrier networks and the digital home and deliver large-scale video systems to
extend Cisco s commitment to and leadership in the service provider market.          

The Company acquired Sheer Networks, Inc. to provide technology that is designed to adapt to network changes, scale to large networks, and help extend new
technologies and services that simplify the task of monitoring and maintaining complex networks.         The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions other than Scientific-Atlanta completed during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 have not been presented because the effects
of the acquisitions, individually or in the aggregate, were not material to the Company s financial results. The pro forma results of Scientific-Atlanta are presented below.       (b) Acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.       On February 24, 2006, Cisco completed the acquisition of
Scientific-Atlanta, Inc., a provider of set-top boxes, end-to-end video distribution networks, and video integration systems. The financial information in the table below summarizes the combined results of operations of Cisco and Scientific-Atlanta,
on a pro forma basis, as though the companies had been combined as of the beginning of fiscal 2006. The unaudited pro forma financial information combines the historical results of operations of Cisco for fiscal 2006, which include the results of
operations of Scientific-Atlanta subsequent to February 24, 2006, and the historical results of operations of Scientific-Atlanta for the six months ended December 30, 2005 and the month ended February 24, 2006.         
   58 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   This information is presented for informational purposes only and is not indicative of the results
of operations that would have been achieved if the acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta and issuance of $6.5 billion of debt (see Note 8) had taken place at the beginning of fiscal 2006. The debt was issued to finance the acquisition of
Scientific-Atlanta as well as for general corporate purposes. For the purposes of this pro forma financial information, the interest expense on the entire debt, including the effects of hedging, were included in the pro forma financial adjustments.
The pro forma financial information also included incremental share-based compensation expense due to the acceleration of Scientific-Atlanta employee stock options prior to the acquisition date, investment banking fees, and other acquisition-related
costs, recorded in Scientific-Atlanta s historical results of operations during February 2006. In addition, the pro forma financial information also included the purchase accounting adjustments on historical Scientific-Atlanta inventory,
adjustments to depreciation on acquired property and equipment, a charge for in-process research and development, amortization charges from acquired intangible assets, adjustments to interest income, and related tax effects.      The following table summarizes the pro forma financial information (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
     (c) Compensation Expense Related to Acquisitions and Investments       The following table presents the compensation expense related to acquisitions and investments (in millions):       
     Share-Based Compensation Expense  Beginning in fiscal 2006, share-based compensation related to acquisitions
and investments is measured under SFAS 123(R) and includes deferred share-based compensation relating to acquisitions completed prior to fiscal 2006. As of July 26, 2008, the remaining balance of share-based compensation related to acquisitions
and investments to be recognized over the vesting periods was $245 million.       Cash Compensation Expense  In connection with the Company s
purchase acquisitions, asset purchases, and acquisitions of variable interest entities, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other
milestones, or the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities. In each case, any additional amounts paid will be recorded as compensation expense. As of July 26, 2008, the Company may be required to
recognize future compensation expense pursuant to these agreements of up to $558 million, including the remaining potential amount of additional compensation expense related to Nuova Systems, Inc., as discussed below.       Nuova Systems, Inc.    During fiscal 2008, the Company purchased the remaining interests in Nuova Systems, Inc. not previously held by the Company,
representing approximately 20% of Nuova Systems. Under the terms of the merger agreement, the former minority interest holders of Nuova Systems are eligible to receive up to three milestone payments based on agreed-upon formulas. As a result, during
2008 the Company recorded compensation expense of $277 million related to the fair value of amounts that are expected to be earned by the minority interest holders pursuant to a vesting schedule. Actual amounts payable to the former minority
interest holders of Nuova Systems will depend upon achievement under the agreed-upon formulas.      Subsequent changes to the fair value of the
amounts probable of being earned and the continued vesting will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense. The potential amount that could be recorded as compensation expense may be up to a maximum of $678 million, including the
amount that has been expensed as of the end of fiscal 2008. The compensation is expected to be paid during fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2012.         
   2008 Annual Report 59   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    4. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets        (a) Goodwill       The following tables present the changes in
goodwill allocated to the Company s reportable segments during fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions):       
    In the table above,  Other  primarily includes foreign currency translation and purchase accounting
adjustments.       (b) Purchased Intangible Assets       The
following tables present details of the purchased intangible assets acquired through acquisitions during fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions, except years):       

60 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   The following tables present details of the Company s purchased intangible assets (in millions):       
    (1) The technology category for the year ended July 26, 2008 includes technology intangible assets acquired
through business combinations as well as technology licenses.      The following table presents the amortization of purchased
intangible assets (in millions):       
    During the years ended July 26, 2008 and July 29, 2006, the Company recorded impairment charges of $33
million and $69 million, respectively, from write-downs of purchased intangible assets primarily related to certain technology and customer relationships due to reductions in expected future cash flows, and the amounts were recorded as amortization
of purchased intangible assets.      The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets as of July 26, 2008, is as
follows (in millions):       
       
   2008 Annual Report 61   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    5. Balance Sheet Details       The following tables provide details of selected balance sheet items (in millions):       
       
   62 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    6. Financing Receivables and Guarantees        (a) Lease Receivables       Lease receivables represent sales-type and
direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of the Company s and complementary third-party products. These lease arrangements typically have terms from two to three years and are generally collateralized by a security interest in the
underlying assets. The net lease receivables are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    Contractual maturities of the gross lease receivables at July 26, 2008 were $655 million in fiscal 2009, $514
million in fiscal 2010, $328 million in fiscal 2011, $160 million in fiscal 2012, and $73 million in fiscal 2013 and thereafter. Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or
defaults.       (b) Financed Service Contracts       Financed
service contracts are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    The revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is
deferred and included in deferred service revenue. The revenue is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which is typically from one to three years.       (c) Loan Receivables       Loan receivables are summarized as follows (in
millions):       
    A portion of the revenue related to loan receivables is deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on
revenue recognition criteria.         
   2008 Annual Report 63   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (d) Financing Guarantees       The Company provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and other customers. The Company could be called upon to make payment under these guarantees in the
event of nonpayment to the third party. As of July 26, 2008, the total maximum potential future payments related to these guarantees was approximately $830 million, of which approximately $610 million was recorded as deferred revenue on the
consolidated balance sheet in accordance with revenue recognition policies and FIN 45.       7. Investments        (a) Summary of Investments       The following tables summarize the
Company s investments (in millions):       
     (b) Gains and Losses on Investments       The following table presents gross realized gains and losses related to the Company s investments (in millions):       
       
   64 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   The following tables present the breakdown of the investments with unrealized losses at July 26, 2008 and
July 28, 2007 (in millions):       
    The gross unrealized losses related to fixed income securities as of July 26, 2008 were primarily due to
changes in interest rates and credit market conditions. The gross unrealized losses related to publicly traded equity securities as of July 26, 2008 were due to changes in market prices. The Company s management has determined that the
gross unrealized losses on its investment securities at July 26, 2008 are temporary in nature. The Company reviews its investments to identify and evaluate investments that have indications of possible impairment. Factors considered in
determining whether a loss is temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and the Company s intent and ability to hold
the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Substantially all of the Company s fixed income securities are rated investment grade.       (c) Maturities of Fixed Income Securities       The following table
summarizes the maturities of the Company s fixed income securities at July 26, 2008 (in millions):       
    Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or
prepay certain obligations.         
   2008 Annual Report 65   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    8. Borrowings        (a) Long-Term Debt       In February 2006, the Company issued $500 million of senior floating interest rate notes based on
LIBOR due 2009 (the  2009 Notes ), $3.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2011 (the  2011 Notes ), and $3.0 billion of 5.50% senior notes due 2016 (the  2016 Notes ), for an aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion.
The following table summarizes the Company s long-term debt (in millions, except percentages):       
    Upon termination during fiscal 2008 of the interest rate swaps entered into in connection with the 2011 Notes and
the 2016 Notes, the Company received proceeds of $432 million, net of accrued interest, which was recorded as a hedge accounting adjustment of the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt and which is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense
over the remaining terms of the fixed-rate notes. The effective rates for the 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes as of July 26, 2008 include the fixed rate interest on the notes, the amortization of the hedge accounting adjustment and the accretion
of the discount. The effective rates for the 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes as of July 28, 2007 included the variable rate in effect as of the period end on the interest rate swaps and the accretion of the discount.      The 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes are redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified
the 2009 Notes to the current portion of long-term debt. Based on market prices, the fair value of the Company s long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, was $6.6 billion as of July 26, 2008. The Company was in
compliance with all debt covenants as of July 26, 2008.      Interest is payable quarterly on the 2009 Notes and semi-annually on the 2011
Notes and 2016 Notes. Interest expense and cash paid for interest are summarized as follows (in millions):       
     (b) Credit Facility       In August 2007 the Company entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on August 17, 2012. Any advances under the
credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time, or
(ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on the Company s senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that the Company
maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of July 26, 2008, the Company was in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the Company had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. The Company may
also, upon the agreement of either the then existing lenders or of additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility up to a total of $5.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the
credit facility up to August 15, 2014.         
   66 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    9. Derivative Instruments       The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency, interest rate, and equity security price risks. The Company s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the
volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency, interest rates, and equity security prices. The Company s derivatives expose it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the
terms of the agreement. The Company seeks to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored.
Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties.       (a) Foreign Currency Derivatives       The Company s foreign exchange forward and option contracts are summarized as follows (in millions):       
    The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies. As such, it is exposed to adverse movements in
foreign currency exchange rates. To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts. The Company does not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for trading purposes.
     The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and
liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the
revaluation of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity. The Company s foreign exchange forward contracts related to current
assets and liabilities generally range from one to three months in original maturity. Additionally, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with maturities of up to two years related to long-term customer financings. The
foreign exchange forward contracts related to investments generally have maturities of less than two years. The Company also hedges certain net investments in its foreign subsidiaries with forward contracts which generally have maturities of less
than six months.      The Company hedges certain foreign currency forecasted transactions related to certain operating expenses with currency
options and forward contracts. These currency option and forward contracts generally have maturities of less than 18 months and these transactions are designated as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is
initially reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings
immediately. During fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings for hedge ineffectiveness. The Company did not discontinue any hedges during any of the years presented because it was probable that
the original forecasted transactions would not occur.         
   2008 Annual Report 67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (b) Interest Rate Derivatives       The Company s interest rate derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions):   
    The Company s primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment
return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. To realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges.       Interest Rate Swaps, Investments  The Company is currently a party to $1.0 billion of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of its investment
portfolio. Under these interest rate swap contracts, the Company makes fixed-rate interest payments and receives interest payments based on LIBOR. The effect of these swaps is to convert fixed-rate returns to floating-rate returns based on LIBOR for
a portion of the Company s fixed income portfolio. The gains and losses related to changes in the value of the interest rate swaps are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the changes in fair value of the underlying hedged
investment. The fair values of the interest rate swaps designated as hedges of the Company s investments are reflected in prepaid expenses and other current assets or other current liabilities.       Interest Rate Swaps, Long-Term Debt  In conjunction with its issuance of fixed-rate senior notes in February 2006, the Company entered into $6.0 billion of
interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of the fixed-rate debt. The effect of these swaps was to convert fixed-rate interest expense to floating-rate interest expense based on LIBOR. During fiscal 2008, the Company terminated the $6.0
billion of interest rate swaps and received proceeds of $432 million, net of accrued interest, which was recorded as a hedge accounting adjustment of the carrying amount of the fixed-rate debt and is amortized as a reduction to interest expense over
the remaining terms of the fixed-rate notes. While such interest rate swaps were in effect, their fair values were reflected in other assets or other long-term liabilities and the gains and losses related to changes in the value of such interest
rate swaps were included in other income (loss), net, and offset the changes in fair value of the underlying debt.       (c) Equity Derivatives
      The Company s equity derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions):   
    The Company maintains a portfolio of publicly traded equity securities which are subject to price risk. The
Company may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify the Company s overall investment portfolio. To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, the Company may enter into equity
derivatives, including forward sale and option agreements. As of July 26, 2008, the Company had entered into forward sale agreements on certain publicly traded equity securities designated as fair value hedges. The gains and losses due to
changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment. The fair values of the equity derivatives are reflected in prepaid expenses and
other current assets and other current liabilities.         
   68 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    10. Commitments and Contingencies        (a) Operating Leases       The Company leases office space in several
U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom. Rent expense totaled $291 million, $219 million, and $181
million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Future annual minimum lease payments under all noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of July 26, 2008 are as follows (in millions):       
     (b) Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers       The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products. During the normal
course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria
as defined by the Company or that establish the parameters defining the Company s requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company s requirements based on its
business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Consequently, only a portion of the Company s reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. As of July 26, 2008 and
July 28, 2007, the Company had total purchase commitments for inventory of $2.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively.      In addition to
the above, the Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of its future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of the Company s excess and obsolete inventory. As
of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, the liability for these purchase commitments was $184 million and $168 million, respectively, and was included in other current liabilities.       (c) Compensation Expense Related to Acquisitions and Investments       In connection with the Company s purchase
acquisitions, asset purchases, and acquisitions of variable interest entities, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones, or
the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 3.       (d) Other Commitments       The Company also has certain funding commitments primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the
achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were approximately $359 million and $140 million as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, respectively.   
   (e) Variable Interest Entities       In the ordinary course of
business, the Company has investments in privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers through its wholly owned subsidiaries, which may be considered to be variable interest entities. The Company has evaluated its investments
in these privately held companies and customer financings and determined that there were no significant unconsolidated variable interest entities as of July 26, 2008.       
  
   2008 Annual Report 69   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (f) Guarantees and Product Warranties       The following table summarizes the activity related to the product warranty liability during fiscal 2008 and 2007 (in millions):       
    The Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs,
labor costs for technical support staff, and associated overhead. The products sold are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty.
     In the normal course of business, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions
with the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold the other parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants, or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made
against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the
Company s bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company s agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company s limited history with prior
indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company s operating results, financial
position, or cash flows.      The Company also provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements
to channel partners and other customers. See Note 6. The Company s other arrangements as of July 26, 2008 that were subject to recognition and disclosure requirements under FIN 45 were not material.       (g) Legal Proceedings       The Company and other defendants were subject
to claims asserted by Telcordia Technologies, Inc. on July 16, 2004 in the Federal District Court for the District of Delaware alleging that various Cisco routers, switches and optical products infringed United States Patent Nos. 4,893,306,
4,835,763, and Re 36,633. Telcordia sought damages and injunctive relief. The Court ruled that, as a matter of law, the Company does not infringe Patent No. 4,893,306. After conclusion of a trial, on May 10, 2007, a jury found that
infringement had occurred on the other patents and awarded damages in an amount that is not material to the Company. The Company has asked the Court to reverse the verdict as a matter of law, and if necessary, the Company intends to appeal the
decision. Telcordia has asked the Court to enhance damages and award it attorneys  fees and also has the right to appeal. The Company believes that the ultimate outcome of this matter and aggregate potential damages will not be material.
     Brazilian authorities are investigating certain employees of the Company s Brazilian subsidiary and certain employees of a Brazilian
importer of the Company s products relating to the allegation of evading import taxes and other alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. The Company is conducting a thorough review of the matter. To date,
Brazilian authorities have not asserted a claim against the Company. The Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome on any potential claims against it or to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. In addition, the
Company is investigating the allegations regarding improper transactions, the Company has proactively communicated with United States authorities to provide information and report on its findings, and the United States authorities are currently
investigating such allegations.      In addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary
course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on its
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.         
   70 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    11. Shareholders  Equity        (a) Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase
program. As of July 26, 2008, the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to $62 billion of common stock under this program and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was $8.4 billion with no
termination date. The stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program in fiscal 2007 and 2008 is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
    (1) Includes stock repurchases that were pending settlement as of period end.
     The purchase price for the shares of the Company s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders  equity. In accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 6,  Status of Accounting Research Bulletins,  the Company is required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings until retained
earnings are zero and then as an increase to accumulated deficit and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital. Issuance of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock incentive plans are recorded as an
increase to common stock and additional paid-in capital.       (b) Other Repurchases of Common Stock       The Company also repurchases shares in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units.       (c) Preferred Stock       Under the terms of the Company s Articles
of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the Company s authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.       (d) Comprehensive Income       The components of comprehensive income are as follows (in millions):       
    The Company consolidates its investment in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK as the Company is the primary
beneficiary as defined under FIN 46(R). As a result, SOFTBANK s interest in the change in the unrealized gains and losses on the investments in the venture fund is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and is
reflected as a change in minority interest.         
   2008 Annual Report 71   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    12. Employee Benefit Plans        (a) Employee Stock Purchase Plan       The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan, the
International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the  Purchase Plan ), under which 321.4 million shares of the Company s stock have been reserved for issuance. Eligible employees may purchase a limited number of shares of
the Company s stock at a discount of up to 15% of the lesser of the market value on the subscription date or the purchase date, which is approximately six months after the subscription date. The Purchase Plan terminates on January 3, 2010.
The Company issued 19 million, 17 million, and 21 million shares under the Purchase Plan in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. As of July 26, 2008, 63 million shares were available for issuance under the Purchase
Plan.       (b) Employee Stock Incentive Plans        Stock
Incentive Plan Program Description  As of July 26, 2008, the Company had five stock incentive plans: the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan  the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1996 Plan  the 1997 Supplemental
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  SA Acquisition Plan  and the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  WebEx
Acquisition Plan ). In addition, the Company has, in connection with the acquisitions of various companies, assumed the share-based awards granted under stock incentive plans of the acquired companies or issued share-based awards in replacement
thereof. Share-based awards are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions to the Company and provide incentives for them to remain with the Company. The number and frequency of share-based awards are based on competitive
practices, operating results of the Company, government regulations, and other factors. Since the inception of the stock incentive plans, the Company has granted stock options to virtually all employees, and the majority has been granted to
employees below the vice president level. The Company s primary stock incentive plans are summarized as follows:        2005 Plan   As amended
on November 15, 2007, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term is 559 million shares plus the amount of any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007 under the 1996 Plan, the SA
Acquisition Plan and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled. However, any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007 under the 1996 Plan, the SA
Acquisition Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms will not be considered to become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan. If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are
terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan. The number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan will be reduced by 2.5 shares for
each share awarded as stock grants or stock units.      The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock
appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers) and consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company. Stock options granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise
price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than nine years from the grant date. The stock options will generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year from
the date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months, respectively. Stock grants and stock units will generally vest with respect to 20% or 25% of the shares covered by the grant on each of the first through fifth or fourth
anniversaries of the date of the grant, respectively. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors has the discretion to use different vesting schedules. Stock appreciation rights may be awarded in combination with
stock options or stock grants and such awards shall provide that the stock appreciation rights will not be exercisable unless the related stock options or stock grants are forfeited. Stock grants may be awarded in combination with non-statutory
stock options, and such awards may provide that the stock grants will be forfeited in the event that the related non-statutory stock options are exercised.         
   72 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
     1996 Plan   The 1996 Plan expired on December 31, 2006, and the Company can no longer make equity
awards under the 1996 Plan. The maximum number of shares issuable over the term of the 1996 Plan was 2.5 billion shares. Stock options granted under the 1996 Plan have an exercise price of at least 100% of the fair market value of the underlying
stock on the grant date and expire no later than nine years from the grant date. The stock options generally become exercisable for 20% or 25% of the option shares one year from the date of grant and then ratably over the following 48 or 36 months,
respectively. Certain other grants have utilized a 60-month ratable vesting schedule. In addition, the Board of Directors, or other committees administering the plan, have the discretion to use a different vesting schedule and have done so from time
to time.        Supplemental Plan   The Supplemental Plan expired on December 31, 2007, and the Company can no longer make equity awards under
the Supplemental Plan. Officers and members of the Company s Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Plan. Nine million shares were reserved for issuance under the Supplemental Plan.        Acquisition Plans   In connection with the Company s acquisitions of Scientific-Atlanta and WebEx, the Company adopted the SA Acquisition Plan and the
WebEx Acquisition Plan, respectively, each effective upon completion of the applicable acquisition. These plans constitute assumptions, amendments, restatements, and renamings of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Scientific-Atlanta and the WebEx
Communications, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. The plans permit the grant of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation rights to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates
who had been employed by Scientific-Atlanta or its subsidiaries or WebEx or its subsidiaries, as applicable. As a result of the shareholder approval of the amendment and extension of the 2005 Plan, as of November 15, 2007, the Company will no
longer make stock option grants or direct share issuances under either the SA Acquisition Plan or the WebEx Acquisition Plan.       Dilutive Effect of Stock
Options  Weighted-average basic and diluted shares outstanding for fiscal 2008 were 6.0 billion shares and 6.2 billion shares, respectively. For the year ended July 26, 2008, the dilutive effect of potential common shares was approximately
177 million shares or 3.0% of the basic shares outstanding based on the Company s average share price of $27.15.      The following
table illustrates grant dilution computed based on net stock options granted as a percentage of shares of common stock outstanding at the fiscal year end (in millions, except percentages):       
       
   2008 Annual Report 73   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    General Share-Based Award Information  A summary of share-based award activity is as follows (in millions,
except per-share amounts):       
    (1) The total pretax intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006 was $1.6
billion, $3.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.      (2) Amounts represent restricted stock and other share-based awards (excluding stock options)
granted and assumed. The Company had total shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units outstanding of 10 million, 11 million, and 6 million as of July 26, 2008, July 28, 2007, and July 29, 2006,
respectively. Share-based awards available for grant are reduced by 2.5 shares for each share awarded as stock grants or pursuant to stock units from the 2005 Plan subsequent to November 15, 2007.      The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable stock options as of July 26, 2008 (in millions, except years and share prices):

74 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the
Company s closing stock price of $22.43 as of July 25, 2008, which would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money stock options
exercisable as of July 26, 2008 was 463 million. As of July 28, 2007, 829 million outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was $30.13.       Valuation and Expense Information Under SFAS 123(R)  Share-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS 123(R) consists primarily of expenses for stock
options, stock purchase rights, restricted stock, and restricted stock units granted to employees. The following table summarizes employee share-based compensation expense (in millions):       
    (1) Share-based compensation expense of $87 million, $34 million, and $87 million related to acquisitions and
investments for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, is disclosed in Note 3 and is not included in the above table.      As of July 26, 2008, total
compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards, including share-based compensation relating to acquisitions and investments, not yet recognized was $3.4 billion, which is expected to be recognized over approximately 3.5 years on a
weighted-average basis. The income tax benefit for employee share-based compensation expense was $330 million, $342 million, and $294 million for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.        Lattice-Binomial Model   Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2006, the Company began estimating the value of employee stock options and
employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial model. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the value of each employee stock option and employee stock purchase right was estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes model.      The Company s employee stock options have vesting provisions and various restrictions including restrictions on
transfer and hedging, among others, and are often exercised prior to their contractual maturity. Lattice-binomial models are more capable of incorporating the features of the Company s employee stock options than closed-form models such as the
Black-Scholes model. The use of a lattice-binomial model requires extensive actual employee exercise behavior data and a number of complex assumptions including expected volatility, risk-free interest rate, expected dividends, kurtosis, and
skewness. The weighted-average assumptions, using the lattice-binomial model, and the weighted-average expected life and estimated grant date fair values of employee stock options granted during the respective years and employee stock purchase
rights with subscription dates in the respective years are summarized as follows:       
       
   2008 Annual Report 75   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   The determination of the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model
is impacted by the Company s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. The weighted-average assumptions were determined as follows:       

For employee stock options, the Company used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on the Company s stock as the expected volatility assumption
required in the lattice-binomial model, consistent with SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107. For employee stock purchase rights, the Company used the implied volatility for six-month traded options on the Company s stock. The selection of the implied
volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on the Company s stock and the Company s assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility.

The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the Company s employee stock options and employee
stock purchase rights.          

The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts.          

The estimated kurtosis and skewness are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns, which affect expected employee exercise behaviors, and are
based on the Company s stock price return history as well as consideration of various academic analyses.         The expected life of
employee stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding and is a derived output of the lattice-binomial model. The expected life of employee stock options is impacted by all of the
underlying assumptions and calibration of the Company s model. The lattice-binomial model assumes that employees  exercise behavior is a function of the option s remaining vested life and the extent to which the option is
in-the-money. The lattice-binomial model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on the entire history of exercises and cancellations on all past option grants made by the Company.       Accuracy of Fair Value Estimates  The Company uses third-party analyses to assist in developing the assumptions used in, as well as calibrating, its
lattice-binomial model. The Company is responsible for determining the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of its share-based payment awards. The Company s determination of the fair value of share-based payment awards is affected by
assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the Company s expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards and actual and projected employee stock option
exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting or hedging restrictions and are fully transferable. Because the Company s employee stock options have certain
characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management s opinion, the existing valuation models may not provide an
accurate measure of the fair value of the Company s employee stock options. Although the fair value of employee stock options is determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and SAB 107 using an option-pricing model, that value may not be
indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction.       (c) Employee 401(k) Plans       The Company sponsors the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the  Plan ) to provide retirement benefits for its employees. As allowed under Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides for tax-deferred salary contributions for eligible employees. The Plan allows employees to contribute from 1% to 25% of their annual compensation to the Plan on a pretax and after-tax basis. Employee
contributions are limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the Internal Revenue Code. The Company matches pretax employee contributions up to 100% of the first 4% of eligible earnings that are contributed by employees. Therefore,
the maximum matching contribution that the Company may allocate to each participant s account will not exceed $9,200 for the 2008 calendar year due to the $230,000 annual limit on eligible earnings imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. All
matching contributions vest immediately. The Company s matching contributions to the Plan totaled $171 million, $131 million, and $96 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.      The Plan allows employees who meet the age requirements and reach the Plan contribution limits to make a catch-up contribution not to exceed the lesser of
50% of their eligible compensation or the limit set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. The catch-up contributions are not eligible for matching contributions. In addition, the Plan provides for discretionary profit-sharing contributions as
determined by the Board of Directors. Such contributions to the Plan are allocated among eligible participants in the proportion of their salaries to the total salaries of all participants. There were no discretionary profit-sharing contributions
made in fiscal 2008, 2007, or 2006.      The Company also sponsors other 401(k) plans that arose from acquisitions of other companies. The
Company s contributions to these plans were not material to the Company on either an individual or aggregate basis for any of the fiscal years presented.         
   76 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (d) Deferred Compensation Plans       The Company maintains a deferred compensation plan for certain employees and directors of Scientific-Atlanta (the  SA Plan ). The deferred compensation liability under the SA Plan was approximately $126
million and $109 million, as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007, respectively, and was recorded in current and long-term liabilities.      The Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, became effective June 25, 2007. As required by applicable law, participation in the Deferred
Compensation Plan is limited to a group of the Company s management employees, which group includes each of the Company s named executive officers. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, which is an unfunded and unsecured deferred
compensation arrangement, a participant may elect to defer base salary, bonus, and/or commissions, pursuant to such rules as may be established by the Company, up to the maximum percentages for each deferral election as described in the plan. This
operates in a manner similar to the way in which the Company s 401(k) plan operates, but without regard to the maximum deferral limitations imposed on 401(k) plans by the Internal Revenue Code. The Company may also, at its discretion, make a
matching contribution to the employee under the Deferred Compensation Plan. A matching contribution equal to 4% of eligible compensation over the Internal Revenue Code limit for calendar year 2008 that is deferred by participants under the Deferred
Compensation Plan will be made to eligible participants  accounts at the end of calendar year 2008. The deferred compensation liability under this plan was approximately $45 million as of July 26, 2008 and was recorded in long-term
liabilities.       (e) Defined Benefit Plans Assumed from Scientific-Atlanta       Upon completion of the acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta, the Company assumed certain defined benefit plans related to employee pensions. Scientific-Atlanta had a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially
all of its domestic employees, defined benefit pension plans covering certain international employees, a restoration retirement plan for certain domestic employees, and supplemental executive retirement plans for certain key officers (collectively,
the  Pension Plans ).      The fair value of the liabilities of these plans was determined as of the July 26, 2008 and
July 28, 2007 measurement dates. The fair value determination of the liabilities reflects the Company s intent to integrate the Scientific-Atlanta employee benefit programs with those of the Company. As a result, no additional benefits
have been accrued under the Pension Plans since February 2008.      The following table sets forth projected benefit obligations, plan assets,
and amounts recorded in current and long-term liabilities under the Pension Plans (in millions):       
    The accumulated benefit obligations under the Pension Plans were $197 million and $225 million as of July 26,
2008 and July 28, 2007, respectively.         
   2008 Annual Report 77   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    13. Income Taxes        (a) Provision for Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions):   
   
    The tax provision for fiscal 2008 included tax expense of $229 million related to the intercompany realignment of
certain of the Company s foreign operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2008. The tax provision for fiscal 2008 also included a net tax benefit of $162 million related to a settlement of certain tax matters with the IRS
during the first quarter of fiscal 2008. In December 2006, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit, retroactive to January 1, 2006. As a result, the tax provision for fiscal 2007 included a tax
benefit of approximately $60 million related to the U.S. federal R D tax credit attributable to fiscal 2006 R D. The tax provision for fiscal 2006 included a benefit of approximately $124 million from the favorable settlement of a tax audit
in a foreign jurisdiction.         
   78 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of earnings of
foreign subsidiaries were not provided for on a cumulative total of $21.9 billion of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings
were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an
adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable.      On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the  Jobs Creation Act ) was signed into law. The Jobs Creation Act created a
temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. In fiscal 2006, the Company distributed cash
from its foreign subsidiaries and reported an extraordinary dividend (as defined in the Jobs Creation Act) of $1.2 billion and a related tax liability of approximately $63 million in its fiscal 2006 federal income tax return. This amount was
previously provided for in the provision for income taxes and is included in income taxes payable. This distribution does not change the Company s intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of certain of its foreign subsidiaries
in operations outside the United States.      As a result of certain employment and capital investment actions and commitments, the
Company s income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. These tax incentives expire in whole or in part at various times through fiscal 2025.       (b) Unrecognized Tax Benefits       On July 29, 2007, the Company
adopted FIN 48 which prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement, classification, and disclosure of uncertain tax positions. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, the Company reduced the liability for net
unrecognized tax benefits by $451 million and accounted for this as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle that was recorded as an increase to retained earnings of $202 million and an increase to additional paid-in capital of $249
million. The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits as of the date of adoption was $3.3 billion, of which $2.9 billion would affect the effective tax rate if realized. The Company historically classified liabilities for unrecognized tax
benefits in current income taxes payable. In implementing FIN 48, the Company has reclassified liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits for which the Company does not anticipate payment or receipt of cash within one year to noncurrent income taxes
payable. In addition, the Company reclassified the income tax receivable to income taxes payable.      The aggregate changes in the balance of
gross unrecognized tax benefits during fiscal 2008 were as follows (in millions):       
    In connection with the regular examination of the Company s federal income tax returns for fiscal years ended
July 27, 2002 through July 31, 2004, the IRS proposed certain adjustments related to the Company s international operations. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company and the IRS agreed to a settlement with respect to certain
tax issues related to U.S. income inclusions arising from the Company s international operations for fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 29, 2006. As a result of the settlement, the Company reduced the amount of gross
unrecognized tax benefits by approximately $1.0 billion. The Company also reduced the amount of accrued interest by $39 million. In addition, the IRS has proposed other adjustments that are not covered under the settlement agreement related to
fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 31, 2004. The Company has timely filed a protest with IRS Appeals on these proposed adjustments. The Company believes that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may
ultimately result from these examinations.         
   2008 Annual Report 79   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   As of July 26, 2008, $2.1 billion of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective
tax rate if realized. The Company s policy to include interest and penalties related to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits, within the provision for income taxes did not change as a result of implementing FIN 48. As of the date
of adoption of FIN 48, the Company had accrued $183 million in income taxes payable for the payment of interest and penalties. As of July 26, 2008, the Company had accrued $166 million in income taxes payable for the payment of interest and
penalties, of which $8 million was recorded to the provision for income taxes during fiscal 2008. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax audit for returns covering tax years through fiscal year 2001. With limited exceptions, the
Company is no longer subject to state and local or foreign income tax audits for returns covering tax years through fiscal year 1997. Although timing of the resolution of audits is highly uncertain, the Company does not believe it is reasonably
possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of July 26, 2008 will materially change in the next 12 months.       (c) Deferred Tax
Assets and Liabilities       The following table presents the breakdown between current and noncurrent net deferred tax assets (in millions):       
       
   80 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
   As of July 26, 2008, the Company s federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income
tax purposes were $344 million, $1.7 billion, and $97 million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2016, the state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal
2009, and the foreign net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2011. As of July 26, 2008, the Company s federal and state tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $10 million and $600
million, respectively. If not utilized, the federal and state tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal 2009.       14. Segment Information and
Major Customers       The Company s operations involve the design, development, manufacturing, marketing, and technical support of networking and other
products and services related to the communications and information technology industry. Cisco products include routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other products. These products, primarily integrated by Cisco IOS Software, link
geographically dispersed local-area networks (LANs), metropolitan-area networks (MANs) and wide-area networks (WANs).       (a) Net Sales and Gross Margin by
Theater       The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis. The Company s management makes financial decisions
and allocates resources based on the information it receives from its internal management system. Sales are attributed to a geographic theater based on the ordering location of the customer. During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company
enhanced its methodology for attributing certain revenue transactions, including revenue deferrals, and the associated cost of sales for each, to the respective geographic theater and revised the information utilized by the Company s chief
operating decision maker (CODM). As a result, the Company has reclassified prior year net sales and gross margin amounts by theater to conform to the current year s presentation.      The Company does not allocate research and development, sales and marketing, or general and administrative expenses to its geographic theaters in this
internal management system because management does not include the information in its measurement of the performance of the operating segments. In addition, the Company does not allocate amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets,
share-based compensation expense, and the effects of purchase accounting adjustments to inventory to the gross margin for each theater because management also does not include this information in its measurement of the performance of the operating
segments.      Summarized financial information by theater for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, based on the Company s internal management
system and as utilized by the Company s CODM, is as follows (in millions):       
    (1) Net sales in the United States were $20.2 billion, $18.3 billion, and $14.8 billion for fiscal 2008, 2007, and
2006, respectively.      (2) The unallocated corporate items primarily include the effects of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and
share-based compensation expense.         
   2008 Annual Report 81   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements         
    (b) Net Sales for Groups of Similar Products and Services       The following table presents net sales for groups of similar products and services (in millions):       
    The Company refers to some of its products and technologies as advanced technologies. As of July 26, 2008,
the Company had identified the following advanced technologies for particular focus: application networking services, home networking, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems, and wireless technology. The Company
continues to identify additional advanced technologies for focus and investment in the future, and the Company s investments in some previously identified advanced technologies may be curtailed or eliminated depending on market developments.
      (c) Other Segment Information       The majority of the
Company s assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and investments, as of July 26, 2008 and July 28, 2007 were attributable to its U.S. operations. The Company s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside of
the United States in various foreign subsidiaries was $24.4 billion as of July 26, 2008, and the remaining $1.8 billion was held in the United States. In fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the
Company s net sales.      Property and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets. The following table presents
property and equipment information for geographic areas (in millions):       
     15. Net Income Per Share       The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share (in millions, except per-share amounts):       
       
   82 Cisco Systems, Inc.   

Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited)      (in millions, except per-share amounts)       
     Stock Market Information       Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for each period indicated:       
    The Company has never paid cash dividends on its common stock and has no present plans to do so. There were 68,705
registered shareholders as of September 5, 2008.       Stock Performance Graph       The graph depicted below shows a comparison of cumulative total shareholder returns for Cisco common stock with the cumulative total returns on the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index.
Shareholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future shareholder returns.       Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc., the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index      

Notes:    

The graph assumes that $100 was invested in Cisco common stock and in each index on July 25, 2003 and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared
on shares of Cisco s common stock.           
   2008 Annual Report 83   

</EX-13.1>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT        

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    
 
    3010081 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3045848 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3048504 Nova Scotia Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    3801110 Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Actona Technologies Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Airespace EMEA Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Airespace Wireless Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Aironet Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Aironet Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Arroyo Video Solutions LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Arroyo Video Solutions Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Asset Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    AYR Networks (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    BarcoNet Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Broadware Technologies LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Capital Acquisition Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Albania SHPK   
      
  Albania   
 
    Cisco Bahrain (SPC)   
      
  Bahrain   
 
    Cisco Cameroon Limited   
      
  Cameroon   
 
    Cisco Comercio E Servicos De Hardware E Software Do Brasil LTDA (fka Cisco Do Brasil Ltda)   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Development India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Fast Data, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Iris, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco IronPort Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco ISH B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco ISH II B.V   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Linksys Kiss ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Managed Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Media Solutions, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco MO B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco QSTP-LLC   
      
  Qatar   
 
    Cisco Photonics Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Ravenscourt LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco SBAIF III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Serbia doo Beograd   
      
  Serbia   Montenegro   
 
    Cisco Servicos Do Brasil Limitada   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Cisco Systems (Argentina) S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Ltd   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Information Technology Services Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (China) Research and Development Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems (Colombia) Limitada   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Czech Republic) S.R.O.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems (Ethiopia) PLC   
      
  Ethiopia   
 
    Cisco Systems (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco Systems (India) Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems (Italy) S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems (Jordan)   
      
  Jordan   
 
    Cisco Systems (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    

Cisco Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems (Nigeria) Limited   
      
  Nigeria   
 
    Cisco Systems (Puerto Rico) Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems (Scotland) Limited   
      
  Scotland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Senegal) SUARL   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Cisco Systems (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems (Switzerland) Investments Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems (Trinidad   Tobago) Limited   
      
  Trinidad   Tobago   
 
    Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Algeria EURL   
      
  Algeria   
 
    Cisco Systems Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Austria GmbH   
      
  Austria   
 
    Cisco Systems Belgium BVBA/SPRL   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Cisco Systems Bulgaria EOOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Cisco Systems Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Canada Cie   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Korea) Limited   
      
  Korea   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital (Thailand) Limited   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Asia Pte. Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Capital Canada Cie   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital China Corporation   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Corporation   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Italy S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital South Africa (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco Systems Capital Spain, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Cisco Systems Chile S.A.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Cisco Systems Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Cisco Systems Costa Rica, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Cisco Systems Croatia Ltd. For Trade   
      
  Croatia   
 
    Cisco Systems Cyprus Ltd.   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Cisco Systems De Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Cisco Systems Denmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Cisco Systems Dominicana, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Cisco Systems Ecuador S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Cisco Systems Egypt Ltd.   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Cisco Systems El Salvador, Ltda. de C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Cisco Systems Estonia OU   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings I Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings II Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings III Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings IV Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings V Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings VI Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Finance, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Systems Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    

Cisco Systems France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    Cisco Systems G.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Global Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Holding GmbH   Co. KG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Holdings I, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Systems Hungary Ltd. / Cisco Systems Hungary Servicing and Trading Limited Liability Company   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Cisco Systems International B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems International Holdings Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems International Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking d.o.o. za marketing, tehnicke I druge usluge Sarajevo   
      
  Bosnia   Herzegovina   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Hellas S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Cisco Systems Internetworking Iletisim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Cisco Systems Island Ehf.   
      
  Iceland   
 
    Cisco Systems Israel Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Cisco Systems Jamaica Limited   
      
  Jamaica   
 
    Cisco Systems Limited   
      
  Nevada   
 
    Cisco Systems Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg International S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Cisco Systems Macedonia Dooel Skopje   
      
  Macedonia   
 
    Cisco Systems Management B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Management GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Cisco Systems Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Systems Management Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Cisco Systems Mo ambique, Limitada   
      
  Mozambique   
 
    Cisco Systems Netherlands Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems New Zealand Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Cisco Systems Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Cisco Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Cisco Systems Panama S. de R.L.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Cisco Systems Peru S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Cisco Systems Poland Sp. Z o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Cisco Systems Portugal  Sistemas Inform ticos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Cisco Systems Romania S.R.L.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Cisco Systems Sales   Service Y.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco Systems Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Cisco Systems Slovakia, SPOL. S R.O.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Cisco Systems Taiwan Ltd.   
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Cisco Systems Uruguay S.R.L.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Cisco Systems Venezuela, C.A.   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Cisco Systems Vietnam Limited   
      
  Vietnam   
 
    Cisco Systems Wireless Networking (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Cisco Systems-Linksys (Asia) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Cisco Technology, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco Technology and Services (South Africa) (Pty.) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Cisco TelePresence Suites LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco THV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cisco Tunisia SARL   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    Cisco-Latitude (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (Chengdu) Networking Technology Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Cisco-Linksys (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Cisco-Linksys K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Cisco-Linksys LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Cisco-Navini Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cognio LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CSI (BD) Mauritius Inc   
      
  Mauritius   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    

CSI Mauritius Inc.   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Divitech A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    dynamicsoft LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fibercore Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fineground Networks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Greenfield Networks LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Greenfield Networks Technologies Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Infogear Technology (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Intranets K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    IronPort APAC Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    IronPort do Brasil Intermediacao de Servicos Ltda   
      
  Brazil   
 
    IronPort EMEA, Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    IronPort Systems GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    IronPort Systems K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    IronPort Systems Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    IronPort Systems EURL   
      
  France   
 
    Latigent, LLC   
      
  Kansas   
 
    Latitude Communications Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    LLC Cisco Systems   
      
  Russia   
 
    Metaplex, Inc.   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    Navini Networks de M xico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Navini Networks Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Navini Networks (Suzhou) Ltd   
      
  China   
 
    Neopath Networks, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Netsolve LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Orative Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Parc Technologies Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    PostX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    P-Cube Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    PT Cisco Systems Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Radiata, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Reactivity (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Reactivity LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Japan K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    SA Limited Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SA Management Enterprises LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sameco, S.A. De C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Sammex, L.P.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (HK) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (Shanghai) Company Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Belgium NV   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Central Europe GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta China, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta De Mexico, S. De R.L. De C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Denmark A/S   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Do Brasil Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Eastern Europe Sp. Z O.O.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Europe NV   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Europe, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Financial Enterprises, LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta France S.A.   
      
  France   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Holdings BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Iberia, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta India Sales   Service Private Limited   
      
  India   

Subsidiaries    
      
   State Or Other     Jurisdiction of     Incorporation or     Organization    

Scientific-Atlanta India Technology Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta International, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Italy S.R.L.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Korea Co., Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Latin America, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Pan Asia, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Pty. Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Strategic Investments, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta UB Video, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Vancouver Company   
      
  Canada   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Ventas Y Servicios, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta Western Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Sheer Networks Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Securent LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Securent (India) Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    SIA  Cisco Latvia    
      
  Latvia   
 
    Simac Product Market Research B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Spans Logic Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Telebit Corporation   
      
  California   
 
    Tivella LLC   
      
  California   
 
    Topspin Communications LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Topspin Communication Technologies India Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    UAB  Cisco LT    
      
  Lithuania   
 
    UB Video Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    UB Video Tunisia Ltd.   
      
  Tunisia   
 
    WebEx (China) Software Co., Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    WebEx Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    WebEx Australia Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    WebEx Communications Deutschland GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    WebEx Communications France Sarl   
      
  France   
 
    WebEx Communications, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    WebEx Communications India, Pvt. Ltd.   
      
  India   
 
    WebEx Communications Japan, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    WebEx Communications UK, Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    WebEx Worldwide B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    WebEx Communications B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by
reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.: 333-17839, 333-20157, 333-24559, 333-33093, 333-33663, 333-36197, 333-47191, 333-47191, 333-49141, 333-51089, 333-51487, 333-51089, 333-58533, 333-65867, 333-65867, 333-67789, 333-79941,
333-82945, 333-84663, 333-88917, 333-89893, 333-91241, 333-91239, 333-91285, 333-91897, 333-89893, 333-92439, 333-92441, 333-92435, 333-92439, 333-94225, 333-94365, 333-94753, 333-94753, 333-94225, 333-89893, 333-92435, 333-91897, 333-91239,
333-91241, 333-88917, 333-91285, 333-92441, 333-92439, 333-94365, 333-34400, 333-36034, 333-36156, 333-34400, 333-36156, 333-38738, 333-39086, 333-39818, 333-39086, 333-39858, 333-39086, 333-43628, 333-45788, 333-45794, 333-45898, 333-46124,
333-47920, 333-47922, 333-51118, 333-46124, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-51118, 333-56004, 333-56960, 333-57328, 333-56960, 333-57328, and 333-131723) dated December 13, 1996, January 22, 1997, April 4,
1997, August 7, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 23, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 9, 1998, April 1, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 30, 1998, May 1,
1998, July 6, 1998, October 19, 1998, November 9, 1998, November 24, 1998, June 4, 1999, July 15, 1999, August 6, 1999, October 13, 1999, October 29,
1999, November 18, 1999, November 18, 1999, November 19, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9, 1999, December 9,
1999, January 4, 2000, January 7, 2000, January 10, 2000, January 14, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4,
2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 4, 2000, February 10, 2000, April 10, 2000, May 1,
2000, May 3, 2000, May 9, 2000, May 9, 2000, June 7, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 21, 2000, June 22, 2000, June 22, 2000, August 11,
2000, September 14, 2000, September 14, 2000, September 15, 2000, September 19, 2000, October 13, 2000, October 13, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 6,
2000, December 12, 2000, January 3, 2001, January 4, 2001, February 21, 2001, March 13, 2001, March 20, 2001, March 22, 2001, April 4, 2001, and February 10, 2006,
respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. and on Form S-8 (Nos.: 33-63331, 33-64283, 333-64283 [Post Eff.], 333-01069, 333-02101, 333-05447 [Post Eff.], 333-09903, 333-14383, 333-14661, 333-14679, 333-16577, 333-17287, 333-24741, 333-33613, 333-33619,
333-35805, 333-01069 [Post Eff.], 333-34849 [Post Eff.], 33-40509 [Post Eff.], 33-44221 [Post Eff.], 33-71860 [Post Eff.], 33-87096 [Post Eff.], 333-42249, 333-47159, 333-48949, 333-48949 [Post Eff.], 333-51093, 333-51315, 333-42249 [Post Eff.],
333-64651, 333-65871,333-68335, 333-69117, 333-74237, 333-79717, 333-79721, 333-81971, 333-83045, 333-83277, 333-88695, 333-88699, 333-88831, 333-90883, 333-90885, 333-83227 [Post Eff.], 333-91813, 333-91911, 333-93283, 333-93281, 333-96203,
333-96367, 333-35246, 333-36124, 333-36126, 333-36414, 333-39108, 333-39902, 333-43120, 333-43632, 333-45478, 333-47828, 333-51114, 333-51280, 333-54248, 333-55742, 333-56224, 333-56756, 333-56916, 333-58556, 333-76184, 333-42249 [Post Eff.],
333-91258, 333-96797, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-101340, 333-102623, 333-105300, 333-105713, 333-106284, 333-111977, 333-111995, 333-113993, 333-1114558, 333-118238, 333-118870, 333-119954, 333-120064, 333-120843, 333-120844, 333-121307, 333-122946,
333-123872, 333-125568, 333-125570, 333-125573, 333-126430, 333-126841, 333-128755, 333-129719, 333-132050, 333-133436, 333-135687, 333-135688, 333-137653, 333-137654, 333-139175, 333-140069, 333-141123, 333-141945, 333-142332, 333-142333,
333-143389, 333-143506, 333-143997, 333-144305, 333-147522, 333-147523, 333-147763, 333-148576, and 333-153248) dated October 11, 1995, November 15, 1995, February 20, 1996, February 20, 1996, April 1,
1996, July 29, 1996, August 9, 1996, October 18, 1996, October 23, 1996, October 23, 1996, November 21, 1996, December 5, 1996, April 8, 1997, August 14,
1997, August 14, 1997, September 17, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10,
1997, December 15, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 31, 1998, April 13, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 29, 1998, September 28, 1998, September 29, 1998, October 19,
1998, December 3, 1998, December 17, 1998, March 11, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 30, 1999, July 16, 1999, July 20, 1999, October 8,
1999, October 8, 1999, October 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 30, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 21,
1999, December 21, 1999, February 4, 2000, February 8, 2000, April 20, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 5, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 22,
2000, August 4, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 8, 2000, October 12, 2000, December 1, 2000, December 5, 2000, January 24, 2001, February 16,
2001, February 26, 2001, March 8, 2001, March 12, 2001, April 9, 2001, January 2, 2002, June 25, 2002, June 26, 2002, July 19, 2002, August 20,
2002, November 20, 2002, January 21, 2003, May 15, 2003, May 30, 2003, June 19, 2003, January 16, 2004, January 16, 2004, March 29, 2004, April 19,
2004, August 13, 2004, September 8, 2004, October 26, 2004, October 29, 2004, November 30, 2004, November 30, 2004, December 16, 2004, February 22,
2005, April 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, July 6, 2005, July 25, 2005, September 30, 2005, November 15, 2005, February 27,
2006, April 20, 2006, July 11, 2006, July 11, 2006, September 28, 2006, September 28, 2006, December 7, 2006, January 18, 2007, March 7, 2007, April 6,
2007, April 24, 2007, April 24, 2007, May 31, 2007, June 5, 2007, June 22, 2007, July 3, 2007, November 20, 2007, November 20, 2007, December 3, 2007,
January 10, 2008, and August 29, 2008, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. of our report dated September 12, 2008 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated September 12, 2008 relating to the financial statement schedule,
which appears in this Form 10-K.      /s/    P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP      San Jose, California      September 12, 2008   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, John T. Chambers, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: September 15, 2008       

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS             
 
     John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       (Principal Executive Officer)     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)
       AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Frank A. Calderoni, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: September 15, 2008       

/s/     F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI             
 
     Frank A. Calderoni       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       (Principal Financial
Officer)     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, John T. Chambers, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 26, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 15, 2008       

/s/    J OHN  T.
C HAMBERS             
 
     John T. Chambers       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       (Principal Executive Officer)     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Principal Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2        CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906        OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Frank A. Calderoni, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:       

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 26, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and          

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
        Date: September 15, 2008       

/s/    F RANK  A.
C ALDERONI             
 
     Frank A. Calderoni       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer       (Principal Financial
Officer)     

</EX-32.2>

