<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130910_10-K_edgar_data_858877_0000858877-13-000049_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>41181475</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1036506</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7060346</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8676702</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>9188463</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>14698817</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>135</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000858877-13-000049.hdr.sgml : 20130910
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130910171054
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000858877-13-000049
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20130727
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130910
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130910

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000858877
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				770059951
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0728

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18225
		FILM NUMBER:		131088808

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085264000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CISCO SYSTEMS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000858877-13-000049.txt : 20130910

10-K
 1
 csco-2013727x10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

CSCO - 2013.7.27 - 10K  

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549    
  _____________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark one) 

or                 o 
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the transition period from ____  to ____ 

Commission file number 0-18225    
  _____________________________________ 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:                   Title of Each Class: 
      
    Name of Each Exchange on which Registered 
      Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share 
      
    The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  _____________________________________    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.      x    Yes      o    No 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.      o    Yes      x    No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.      x    Yes     o   No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).      x    Yes      o   No 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                             Large accelerated filer 
      
    x 

Accelerated filer 
      
    o 

Non-accelerated filer 
      
    o 
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
       
    Smaller reporting company 
      
    o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).      o    Yes      x    No 
  Aggregate market value of registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based upon the closing price of a share of the registrant s common stock on January 25, 2013 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date:   $112,104,863,683    
  Number of shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding as of September 4, 2013:   5,361,549,877    
  _____________________________________  
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant s 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 19, 2013, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated. 

1 

       Table of Contents  

PART I 

Item 1. 
      
     Business  
      
    1 
      Item 1A. 
      
     Risk Factors  
      
    16 
      Item 1B. 
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
      
    31 
      Item 2. 
      
     Properties  
      
    31 
      Item 3. 
      
     Legal Proceedings  
      
    32 
      Item 4. 
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
      
    33 

PART II 

Item 5. 
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
      
    34 
      Item 6. 
      
     Selected Financial Data  
      
    36 
      Item 7. 
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
      
    37 
      Item 7A. 
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
      
    68 
      Item 8. 
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
      
    71 
      Item 9. 
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
      
    121 
      Item 9A. 
      
     Controls and Procedures  
      
    122 
      Item 9B. 
      
     Other Information  
      
    122 

PART III 

Item 10. 
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
      
    122 
      Item 11. 
      
     Executive Compensation  
      
    123 
      Item 12. 
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
      
    123 
      Item 13. 
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
      
    123 
      Item 14. 
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
      
    123 

PART IV 

Item 15. 
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
      
    123 

Signatures  
      
    125 

2 

       Table of Contents  

   This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues,   endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. 
    
    PART I 
    
                   Item 1. 
    Business 

General 
  We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP) based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are utilized at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences.    
  We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. Our business is organized into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC).  For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report.    
  As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business imperatives and opportunities-improving productivity and user experience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage-and to help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders, including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers  network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions and customer requirements-including in recent periods, virtualization, cloud, collaboration, and video. We believe that integrating multiple network services into and across our products helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility, and reduce their total cost of network ownership.  Our products and technologies are grouped into the following categories:  Switching; Next-Generation Network (NGN) Routing; Service Provider Video; Collaboration; Wireless; Data Center; Security; and Other Products.  
  Network architectures, built on core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services. 
    1 

     Table of Contents  

   Strategy and Focus Areas 
  Our focus continues to be on our five foundational priorities  :   
             
    Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services), which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions  
                
    Collaboration  
                
    Data center virtualization and cloud  
                
    Video 
                
    Architectures for business transformation 
     We believe that focusing on these priorities best positions us to continue to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending.    
  We continue to undergo product transitions in our core business, including the introduction of next-generation products with higher price performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address through various initiatives, including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services.  
  We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions, which we believe are gaining in frequency. Market transitions relating to the network are becoming, in our view, more significant as intelligent networks have moved from being a mere cost center issue where the focus is on reducing network operating costs and increasing network-related productivity to becoming,  a platform for improved revenue generation as well as driving business agility and strategy execution.   
  Market transitions for which we are primarily focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies, and the transition from Internet Protocol (IP) Version 4 to Version 6. For example, a significant transition is under way in the enterprise data center market, where the move to virtualization/the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows:  
             
    Virtualization:   Refers to the process of creating a virtual, or nonphysical, version of a device or resource, such as a server, storage device, network, or operating system, in such a way that users as well as other devices and resources are able to interact with the virtual resource as if it were an actual physical resource.  For example, one type of virtualization is server or data center virtualization, which consists of aggregating the current segregated data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand, thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network. 
                
    The cloud:   Refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a user s physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user  on demand  as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously.  
     This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously segregated technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.  
  The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large, well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and open standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances,  
    2 

     Table of Contents  

   compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors and partners in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.  
  We are focusing on a market transition involving the move toward more programmable, flexible, and virtual networks, sometimes called software defined networking, or SDN.  This transition is focused on moving from a hardware-centric approach for networking to a virtualized network environment that is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures. We believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) with hardware and software elements together to meet customers  total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability, and experience requirements. In our view, there is no single architecture that supports all customer requirements in this area. Pursuant to our strategy which is targeted to address a broad range of specific customer use cases, we will look to next steps that will follow the initial implementations that are under way.    
  We plan to address the SDN opportunity   to enable more open and programmable network infrastructure   with a broad strategy and set of solutions. We introduced the Cisco Open Network Environment, or Cisco ONE, including overlay network technology, application programming interfaces (APIs), and network-operation tools called agents and controllers, and we have over 120 customers in a trial phase for these solutions. 
  We have also begun introducing our application-centric infrastructure (ACI) strategy, with the goal of going a step further to transform network data centers to better address the demands of  users who will be seeking access to new and current applications on their networks.   Specifically, ACI is a data center networking architecture designed to provide customer IT networks with the ability to deliver business and other applications to end users with a simpler operational model, within a secure and potentially expandable infrastructure, and in a cost-effective manner. 
  In our view, this evolution   driven by mobile device proliferation and cloud delivered data   is in early stages, but we believe we have a differentiated strategy with a unique ability to deploy data centers in locations ranging from the campus to the cloud.  We intend to continue to drive internal innovation, partner for co-development, and make strategic investments to deliver the highest value solutions to our customers. 
  We believe that the architectural approach that we have undertaken in the enterprise data center market is adaptable to other markets.  An example of a market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment, and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices.  A key term in this mobility-centered market transition is  BYOD,  an acronym for  bring your own device,  which in the context of IT usage in companies, universities, and other organizations refers to the growing trend of employees, customers, students, and others associated with such entities bringing and using their own laptop computers, smartphones, tablets, or other mobile devices for their work or participation, instead of using equipment provided by the organization.          
  With regard to this market transition, to help such organizations meet the demands of increasing BYOD usage, our product development strategy involves a comprehensive architectural approach that will allow for, among other things, a unified security policy across the whole organization; a simplified operations and network management structure that understands application performance from a user s perspective, enhances troubleshooting capability, and lowers network operating costs; and an uncompromised user experience over the organization s entire wireless and wired network that embraces use of any kind of device.  Our mobility-related products and solutions reflect this architectural-based approach.   
  Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads and which convergence appears to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies as customers evolve their communications and business models. More generally, we are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers.  
  We believe that several current market transitions are combining into a potentially significant transition in the IP network industry, which we refer to as the Internet of Everything (IoE).  IoE refers to the networked connection of people, process, data, and things, such as appliances, devices, and everyday objects, and is a market transition that we believe will create, by bringing  everything  online, significant opportunities for organizations, communities, and countries to obtain greater value from networked connections.  In parallel with the anticipated proliferation in number of network-connected things, significant advances have been made in Internet and network-related technologies such as the evolution of the cloud, the advent of IPv6, the proliferation of mobile networking, and the increase in global broadband availability. These advances, in turn, are leading to continuing increases in network capabilities which, in combination with the growth in number of IP connections, are reasons why IoE has the potential to be a significant market transition that, we believe, may offer  significant economic and societal benefits.   
    3 

     Table of Contents  

   For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer.  For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Products and Services 
  Our current offerings fall into several categories:  
  Switching  
  Switching is an integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (LANs) and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, access points, and servers and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions.  Key product platforms within our Switching product category, in which we also include storage products, are as follows: 

Fixed-configuration switches     are designed to cover a range of deployments in small and medium-sized businesses.  Our fixed-configuration switches are designed to provide a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. They range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit.       
  Modular switches are typically utilized by enterprise and service provider customers.  These products are designed to offer flexibility and scalability for these customers, which due to their large-scale network demands often need to deploy numerous, advanced-functionality networking services without degrading overall performance.   
  Fixed-configuration and modular switches also include products such as optics modules, which are shared across multiple product platforms. 
  Our switching portfolio also includes virtual switches and service offerings.  These products provide switching functionality for virtual machines and are designed to operate in a complementary fashion with virtual services to optimize security and application behavior. 
  During fiscal 2013, we continued to introduce what we believe to be the industry s most advanced and versatile portfolio of modular, fixed-configuration, blade, and virtual LAN switches for campus, branch, and data center deployments. We also established new performance efficiencies in the industry for data center switching with the Unified Data Center next-generation storage network, which solution provides, in our view, unmatched flexibility with its multiprotocol innovations. Individually, these switches are designed to offer the performance and features required for nearly any deployment, from traditional small workgroups, wiring closets, and network cores to highly virtualized and converged corporate data centers. Working together, these switches are, in our view, the building blocks of an integrated network that delivers scalable and advanced functionality solutions protecting, optimizing, and growing as a customer s business needs evolve.  We also recently announced a versatile and broad approach to network programmability, called Cisco ONE, aimed at helping customers drive the next wave of business innovation through trends such as cloud, mobility, social networking, and video.  Cisco ONE is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures to help businesses realize objectives such as increased service velocity, resource optimization, and faster monetization of new services. 
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   NGN Routing  
  NGN technology is fundamental to the foundation of the Internet.  This category of technologies interconnects public and private wireline and mobile networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our NGN portfolio of hardware and software solutions consists primarily of routers and routing systems and is designed to meet the scale, reliability, and security needs of our customers.  In our view, our portfolio is differentiated from those of our competitors through the advanced capabilities, which we sometimes refer to as  intelligence,  that our products provide at each layer of network infrastructure to deliver performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications.  
  As to specific products, we offer a broad range of hardware and software solutions, from core network infrastructure and mobile network for service providers and enterprises, to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home.  Key product areas within our NGN Routing category are as follows: 
                       High-End Routers 
      
    Midrange and Low-End Routers 
      
    Other NGN Routing 
      Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASRs): 
      
    Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISRs): 
      
    Optical networking products: 
        Cisco ASR 901 and 903 Series 
      
      Cisco 800 Series ISR 
      
    Other routing products 
        Cisco ASR 1000 Series 
      
      Cisco 1900 Series ISR 

Cisco ASR 5000 and 5500 Series 
      
      Cisco 2900 Series ISR 

Cisco ASR 9000 Series 
      
      Cisco 3900 Series ISR 

Cisco ISR-AX 

Cisco Carrier Routing Systems (CRS): 

Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Router 

Cisco CRS-3 Multishelf System 

Cisco CRS-X 

Cisco 7600 Series 

Cisco Quantum Software Suite 

Small cell access routers 

Within our high-end routing category, we experienced continued adoption of our edge and mobile routing offerings, consisting of our Cisco ASR 9000 Series Routers and Cisco ASR 5500 products during fiscal 2013.  Additionally, we made strategic acquisitions to further develop our differentiated software solutions consisting of wide-area-networking (WAN) orchestration, self-optimizing network (SON), and policy-based routing (PBR) which comprise the Cisco Quantum Software Suite offering, and we enhanced our small cell router portfolio with the Ubiquisys Limited acquisition.  We continue to provide further enhancements to our NGN Routing portfolio through our architectural approach, which seeks to combine silicon, systems and software to enable the next-generation IoE and compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace.    
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   Service Provider Video 
  Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world.   Key product areas within our Service Provider Video category are as follows: 
                   Service Provider Video Infrastructure 
      
    Video Software and Solutions 
      Set-top boxes: 
      
      Content security systems 
        IP set-top boxes 
      
      Digital content management products 
        Digital cable set-top boxes 
      
      Digital headend products 
        Digital transport adapters 
      
      Digital media network products 

Integration services 
      Cable/Telecommunications Access: 
      
      Service provider video software solutions (Videoscape) 
        Cable modem termination systems (CMTS) 

Hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) access network products 

Quadrature amplitude modulation products (QAM) 

Cable modems: 

Data modems 

Embedded media terminal adapters 

Wireless gateways 

On July 30, 2012, we completed our acquisition of NDS Group Limited ( NDS ), a provider of video software and content security solutions that enable service providers and media companies to securely deliver and monetize new video entertainment experiences.  The acquisition of NDS will be combined with the delivery of  Cisco Videoscape, Cisco s comprehensive content delivery platform that enables service providers and media companies to deliver next-generation entertainment experiences.   
  Collaboration 
  Our Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoints, including mobile phones, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, and desktop virtualization clients.   Key products areas within our Collaboration category are as follows: 
               Unified Communications: 
        IP phones 
        Call center and messaging products 
        Unified communications infrastructure products 
        Web-based collaborative offerings ( WebEx ) 
      Cisco TelePresence Systems 

During fiscal 2013, our Unified Communication offerings expanded with the introduction of the Cisco Unified IP Conference Phone 8831 and Cisco Desktop Collaboration Experience DX650.  The Cisco Unified IP Conference Phone 8831 is designed to deliver superior acoustic sound and room-size flexibility and features both wired and wireless extension microphones. The Cisco Desktop Collaboration Experience DX650 offers high-definition voice and video communications, integrated collaboration, end-user personalization, and cloud readiness in a single package powered by the widely used Android operating system.  We combined these product introductions with infrastructure developments across the Collaboration portfolio, with the aim of driving interoperability across vendor, business, and consumer boundaries. Additionally, we announced a new release related to our Unified Communications Manager platform to deliver voice, video, messaging, mobility, and security functionality in a manner designed to enhance flexibility, to increase the ability to bridge disparate systems, and to protect the customer s investments.   
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   Wireless 
  Wireless access via wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi) is a fast growing enterprise technology with companies and public institutions across the globe investing to provide indoor and outdoor coverage with seamless roaming for voice, video, and data applications.  We aim to deliver an optimized user experience over Wi-Fi and leverage the intelligence of the network to solve business problems.  Our wireless solutions include wireless access points; standalone, switch-converged, and cloud managed solutions; and network managed services.  Our wireless solutions portfolio is enhanced with security and location-based services via our Mobility Services Engine (MSE) solution.  Our offerings provide users with simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting features that are designed to reduce operational cost and maximize flexibility and reliability. We are also investing in customized chipset development to deliver innovative radio frequency (RF) product functionality such as our CleanAir proactive spectrum intelligence, our ClientLink solution for mobile devices, and our VideoStream video optimization technology. 
  Key product areas within our Wireless category are as follows: 
               Cisco Aironet Series 
      Access point modules for 3600 Series (802.11ac, 3G, WSSI) 
      Controllers (standalone and integrated) 
      Meraki wireless cloud solutions 

In fiscal 2013, we introduced Connected Mobile Experience (CMX), a Wi-Fi location data analytics platform designed to enable our business customers to enhance the mobile device experiences of their customers and thereby create new monetization opportunities.  We also expanded our Unified Access portfolio with our Cisco 5760 Wireless LAN Controller and Cisco Catalyst 3850 Series Switches with the aim of  converging wireline and mobile networks into one physical infrastructure and, additionally, achieving greater network intelligence, performance, and integration with our Cisco ONE platform.  Our acquisitions of Meraki, Inc. ( Meraki ), a cloud managed networking company, and ThinkSmart Technologies Limited, a specialist in Wi-Fi data location analytics, in our view strengthened our Unified Access platform.  The acquisition of Meraki is intended to expand our strategy by providing scalable, easy-to-deploy, on-premise networking solutions for midmarket businesses that can be centrally managed from the cloud. 
  Data Center  
  Our Data Center product category has been our fastest growing major product category for the past three fiscal years.  Cisco Unified Data Center unites computing, networking, storage, management, and virtualization into a single, fabric-based platform designed to increase and simplify operating efficiencies and provide business agility.  Unified Data Center is specifically designed for virtualization and automation and enables on-demand provisioning from shared pools of infrastructure across physical and virtual environments. 
  Key product areas within our Data Center product category are as follows: 
               Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS): 
        Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers 
        Cisco UCS C-Series Rack Servers 
        Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnects 
        Cisco UCS Manager and Cisco UCS Central Software 
        Cisco UCS Director 
        
      Server Access Virtualization: 
        Cisco Nexus 1000V 
        Cisco Nexus 1000V InterCloud 

During fiscal 2013 we expanded the systems management capabilities of  the Cisco UCS management domain with the addition of Cisco UCS Central, which platform is designed to expand the Cisco UCS management domain to encompass thousands of servers across one or many data centers.   We continued to invest in data center and cloud management software by our acquisition of Cloupia, Inc.,  from which our Cisco UCS Director product evolved. In addition, we continued to invest in data center-related technologies obtained from prior acquisitions, and we developed new management software innovations related to Cisco UCS.  We also introduced our Cisco Nexus 1000V InterCloud offering, which provides the architectural foundation for secure hybrid clouds, with the aim of allowing enterprises to easily and securely connect the enterprise data center to the public cloud. 
    7 

     Table of Contents  

   Our fiscal 2013 Data Center product innovations were designed to further our strategy of enabling customers to consolidate both physical and virtualized workloads with unique application requirements onto a single unified, scalable, centrally managed, and automated system.  Our strategy has resulted in a portfolio of standalone and converged infrastructure solutions designed to preserve customer choice, accelerate business initiatives, reduce risk, lower the cost of IT, and represent a comprehensive solution when collectively deployed. 
  Security 
  Security is a significant business concern, and we believe it is a top investment priority for our customers.  Security threats continue to escalate, resulting in the loss of revenue, intellectual property, and reputation.  Our security portfolio of products and services offers identity, network, and content security solutions designed to enable customers to reduce the impact of threats and realize the benefits of a mobile, collaborative, and cloud-enabled business.  Our products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPNs), unified clients, network admission control, web gateways, and email gateways.   Our AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client solution enables users to access networks with their mobile device of choice, such as laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices, while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of networks. Our cloud-based web security service is designed to provide real-time threat protection and to prevent malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users.  We provide security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide.  
  During fiscal 2013, we extended our security solutions to address the expanding needs of our customers.  These solutions focus on fortifying our data centers against threats and on enhancing email and web security to meet the stringent requirements of a more mobile workforce. We also completed our acquisition of Cognitive Security, the product line of which applies artificial intelligence techniques to detect advanced cyberthreats.  
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Sourcefire, Inc. ( Sourcefire ), a leader in intelligent cybersecurity solutions.  Sourcefire delivers innovative, highly automated security through continuous awareness, threat detection and protection across its portfolio, including next-generation intrusion prevention systems, next-generation firewalls, and advanced malware protection.  With the Sourcefire acquisition, we aim to accelerate our security strategy of defending, discovering, and remediating advanced threats to provide continuous security solutions to our customers in more places across the network. 
  Other Products 
  Our Other Products category primarily consists of certain emerging technologies and other networking products. 
  Service 
  In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services.  
  Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software that we have developed. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications.  A key example of this is our Cisco Smart Services offering, which   leverages the intelligence from Cisco s millions of devices and customer connections to protect and optimize network investment for our customers and partners. 
  Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.   
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   Customers and Markets  
  Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and business applications deployed throughout the customer s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and public sector. 
  Enterprise  
  Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services primarily through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.     
  Service Providers 
  Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, mobility, and network management products, systems, and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers.  Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach. 
  Commercial 
  Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners.    
  Public Sector 
  Public sector entities include federal governments, state and local governments, as well as educational institution customers.   Many public sector entities have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment.  We sell to public sector entities through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.    
  Sales Overview  
  As of the end of fiscal   2013  , our worldwide sales and marketing departments consisted of   24,938   employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in 94 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors. 
  Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators. 
  Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.  We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. 
  For information regarding risks related to our channels, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins  and  Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.  
    9 

     Table of Contents  

   For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment   Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations   Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition   We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows  and  Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results,  among others. 
  Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers. 
  Financing Arrangements 
  We provide financing arrangements for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects.   Our financing arrangements include the following: 
               Leases: 
        Sales-type 
        Direct financing 
        Operating 
      Loans 
      Financed service contracts 

For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Product Backlog 
  Our product backlog at   July 27, 2013  , the last day of our 2013 fiscal year, was approximately   $4.9 billion  , compared with product backlog of approximately   $5.0 billion   at   July 28, 2012  , the last day of our 2012 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual product revenue for any future period. 
  Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances 
  The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. Our growth strategy is based on the three components of innovation, which we sometimes refer to as our  build, buy, and partner  approach.  The foregoing is a way of describing how we strive to innovate: we can internally develop, or build, our own innovative solutions; we can acquire, or buy, companies with innovative technologies; and we can partner with companies to jointly develop and/or resell product technologies and innovations.  The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. To summarize, we employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services: 
             
    Developing new technologies and products internally 
                
    Acquiring all or parts of other companies 
                
    Entering into joint development efforts with other companies 
                
    Reselling other companies  products 
     Acquisitions 
  We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk  
    10 

     Table of Contents  

   factor entitled  We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.  
  Investments in Privately Held Companies 
  We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings.  
  Strategic Alliances 
  We pursue strategic alliances  with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new market creation. Companies that we have, or recently had, strategic alliances with include the following: 
  Accenture Ltd; AT T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; Red Hat, Inc.; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VCE Company, LLC ( VCE  VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others.  
  Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factor entitled  If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances, and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.  
  Competition 
  We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our new product markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue. 
  Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation;  Motorola Solutions, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.;  Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; and VMware, Inc.; among others.   
  Some of these companies compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase.  For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated within the data center. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards-based protocols, cloud computing, and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. 
    11 

     Table of Contents  

   The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include: 
             
    The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services 
                
    Product performance 
                
    Price 
                
    The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages 
                
    The ability to reduce production costs 
                
    The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection 
                
    Conformance to standards 
                
    Market presence 
                
    The ability to provide financing 
                
    Disruptive technology shifts and new business models  
     We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. Therefore, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.    
  Research and Development 
  We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among our product categories, which consist of Switching, NGN Routing, Service Provider Video, Collaboration, Wireless, Data Center, Security, and Other Product technologies, for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $  5.9 billion  ,   $5.5 billion  , and   $5.8 billion   in fiscal   2013  ,   2012  , and   2011  , respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus are tied to our foundational priorities and include, but are not limited to, our core routing and switching products, collaboration, and the Cisco Unified Computing System and other products related to the data center. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.  
  The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge, such as IP Version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes or that those products will achieve market acceptance. 
  Manufacturing 
  We rely on contract manufacturers for all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards. 
  Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year.  
    12 

     Table of Contents  

   Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing 
  We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws. 
  Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products. 
  The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  including the risk factors entitled  Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,   We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,  and  We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.  
  Employees  
  Employees are summarized as follows: 

(1)      Cost of sales includes manufacturing support, services, and training. 
  We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.  
    13 

     Table of Contents  

   Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  The following table shows the name, age, and position as of August 31, 2013 of each of our executive officers: 
                       Name 
      
    Age 
      
       Position with the Company 
      Frank A. Calderoni 
      
    56 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      John T. Chambers 
      
    64 
      
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
      Mark Chandler 
      
    57 
      
    Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary, and Chief Compliance Officer 
      Blair Christie 
      
    41 
      
    Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer 
      Wim Elfrink 
      
    61 
      
    Executive Vice President, Emerging Solutions and Chief Globalisation Officer 
      Robert W. Lloyd 
      
    57 
      
    President, Development and Sales 
      Gary B. Moore 
      
    64 
      
    President and Chief Operating Officer 
      Pankaj Patel 
      
    59 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer, Global Engineering 
      Randy Pond 
      
    59 
      
    Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems 
      Charles H. Robbins 
      
    47 
      
    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations 

Mr. Calderoni   joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation, where he held a number of executive positions.  Mr. Calderoni also serves on the Board of Directors of Adobe Systems Incorporated. 
  Mr. Chambers   has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006, and as a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations. 
  Mr. Chandler   joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel, and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, and in May 2012 was appointed Chief Compliance Officer. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation. 
  Ms. Christie   joined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Cisco s Investor Relations team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Cisco s Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations. In June 2006, Ms. Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current position. 
  Mr. Elfrink   joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Cisco Services in Europe. In November 2000, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Cisco Services and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose, California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore, India to establish Cisco s Globalisation Centre East.  In August 2007, he was named Executive Vice President.  In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position, in which he     heads three of Cisco s global initiatives: Cisco s Industry Solutions Group, the Emerging Countries initiatives, and Cisco s globalisation strategy. 
  Mr. Lloyd   joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S., Canada, and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations.  In October 2012, Mr. Lloyd was appointed to his current position. 
    14 

     Table of Contents  

   Mr. Moore   joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services and in February 2011, he was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  In October 2012, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position.  Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems, where he held a number of senior executive positions. 
  Mr. Patel   joined Cisco in July 1996 upon Cisco s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., serving from July 1996 through September 1999 as a Senior Director of Engineering.  From November 1999 through January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President of Engineering at Redback Networks Inc., a networking equipment provider later acquired by Ericsson.  In January 2003, Mr. Patel rejoined Cisco as Vice President and General Manager, Cable Business Unit, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in July 2005.  In January 2006, Mr. Patel was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Service Provider Business and, additionally, in May 2011 became co-leader of Engineering. In June 2012, Mr. Patel assumed the leadership of Engineering.  In August 2012, Mr. Patel was promoted to his current position  . 
  Mr. Pond   joined Cisco in September 1993 upon Cisco s acquisition of Crescendo Communications, Inc. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of Cisco s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications. 
  Mr. Robbins     joined Cisco in December 1997, from which time until March 2002 he held a number of managerial positions within Cisco s sales organization. Mr. Robbins was promoted to Vice President in March 2002, assuming leadership of Cisco s U.S. channel sales organization.  Additionally, in July 2005 he assumed leadership of Cisco s Canada channel sales organization.  In December 2007, Mr. Robbins was promoted to Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial, and in August 2009 he was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S. Enterprise, Commercial and Canada. In July 2011, Mr. Robbins was named Senior Vice President, Americas.  In October 2012, Mr. Robbins was promoted to his current position. 

15 

       Table of Contents  

                  Item 1A. 
    Risk Factors 

Set forth below and elsewhere in this report and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. 
  OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE  
  Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. These factors include:     

Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, in part due to changes in the global economic environment 

Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers  spending plans and associated revenue 

Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments 

Price and product competition in the communications and networking industries, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation and different business models from various geographic regions 

The overall movement toward industry consolidation among both our competitors and our customers 

The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products and our success in new and evolving markets, including in our newer product categories such as data center and collaboration and in emerging technologies, as well as the adoption of new standards 

New business models for our offerings, such as XaaS, where costs are borne up front  while revenue is recognized over time 

Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold 

The timing, size, and mix of orders from customers 

Manufacturing and customer lead times 

Fluctuations in our gross margins, and the factors that contribute to such fluctuations, as described below 

The ability of our customers, channel partners, contract manufacturers and suppliers to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures, especially during a period of global credit market disruption or in the event of customer, channel partner, contract manufacturer or supplier financial problems 

Share-based compensation expense 

Actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements 

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges 

Our ability to achieve targeted cost reductions 

Benefits anticipated from our investments in engineering, sales and manufacturing activities 

Changes in tax laws, tax regulations and/or accounting rules 

16 

       Table of Contents  

   As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition that could adversely affect our stock price.  
  OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET CONDITIONS AND THE UNCERTAIN GEOPOLITICAL ENVIRONMENT  
  Challenging economic conditions worldwide have from time to time contributed, and may continue to contribute, to slowdowns in the communications and networking industries at large, as well as in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in: 

Reduced demand for our products as a result of continued constraints on IT-related capital spending by our customers, particularly service providers, and other customer markets as well 

Increased price competition for our products, not only from our competitors but also as a consequence of customers disposing of unutilized products 

Risk of excess and obsolete inventories 

Risk of supply constraints 

Risk of excess facilities and manufacturing capacity 

Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue and higher interest expense 

The global macroeconomic environment and recovery from the downturn has been challenging and inconsistent.  Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding the U.S. federal budget including the effect of the recent  sequestration, tapering of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.  If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
  Our operating results in one or more segments may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions particularly germane to that segment or to particular customer markets within that segment. For example, during fiscal 2011 we experienced a decrease in spending by our public sector customers in almost every developed market around the world, and we continue to see decreases in spending within certain categories of our public sector customer market.  
  WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING IN PRIORITIES, INCLUDING OUR FOUNDATIONAL PRIORITIES, AND IF THE RETURN ON THESE INVESTMENTS IS LOWER OR DEVELOPS MORE SLOWLY THAN WE EXPECT, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE HARMED  
  We have been realigning and are dedicating resources to focus on certain priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. However, the return on our investments in such priorities may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.  
  OUR REVENUE FOR A PARTICULAR PERIOD IS DIFFICULT TO PREDICT, AND A SHORTFALL IN REVENUE MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS  
  As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this report, our revenue for a particular quarter is difficult to predict, especially in light of a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment and related market uncertainty.  
  Our revenue may grow at a slower rate than in past periods or may decline, which for example occurred in fiscal 2009. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in some of our past quarters recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time during which shipments have exceeded net bookings or manufacturing issues have delayed shipments, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. In addition to making it difficult to predict revenue for a particular period, nonlinearity in shipping can increase costs, because irregular shipment patterns result in periods of underutilized capacity and periods in which overtime expenses may be incurred, as well as in potential additional inventory management-related costs. In addition, to the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods in which  our contract manufacturers are operating at higher levels of  
    17 

       Table of Contents  

   capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters occur and are not remediated within the same quarter.  
  The timing of large orders can also have a significant effect on our business and operating results from quarter to quarter, primarily in the United States and in emerging countries. From time to time, we receive large orders that have a significant effect on our operating results in the period in which the order is recognized as revenue. The timing of such orders is difficult to predict, and the timing of revenue recognition from such orders may affect period to period changes in revenue. As a result, our operating results could vary materially from quarter to quarter based on the receipt of such orders and their ultimate recognition as revenue.  
  Inventory management remains an area of focus. We have experienced longer than normal manufacturing lead times in the past which have caused some customers to place the same order multiple times within our various sales channels and to cancel the duplicative orders upon receipt of the product, or to place orders with other vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along with other factors) or risk of order cancellation may cause difficulty in predicting our revenue and, as a result, could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively. In addition, our efforts to improve manufacturing lead-time performance may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results. In addition, when facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations.  
  We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted revenue levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively fixed in the short term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations because we may not be able to quickly reduce these fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.  
  Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial results.  
  WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN TO VARY OVER TIME, AND OUR LEVEL OF PRODUCT GROSS MARGIN MAY NOT BE SUSTAINABLE  
  Our level of product gross margins declined in fiscal 2011 and to a lesser extent in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 and may continue to decline and be adversely affected by numerous factors, including:     

Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within each product group 

Introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages, and new business models for our offerings such as XaaS 

Our ability to reduce production costs 

Entry into new markets or growth in lower margin markets, including markets with different pricing and cost structures, through acquisitions or internal development 

Sales discounts 

Increases in material, labor or other manufacturing-related costs, which could be significant especially during periods of supply constraints 

Excess inventory and inventory holding charges 

Obsolescence charges 

Changes in shipment volume 

The timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals 

Increased cost, loss of cost savings or dilution of savings due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either contract manufacturers or suppliers deteriorates 

Lower than expected benefits from value engineering 

Increased price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially from China 

18 

       Table of Contents  

Changes in distribution channels 

Increased warranty costs 

Increased amortization of purchased intangible assets, especially from acquisitions 

How well we execute on our strategy and operating plans 

Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as changes in the mix between technical support services and advanced services, as well as the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals and the addition of personnel and other resources to support higher levels of service business in future periods.  
  SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE, AND WEAKNESS IN SALES ORDERS FROM THIS INDUSTRY MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION  
  Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products in our newer product categories such as Data Center, Collaboration, and Service Provider Video, in addition to longer sales cycles. In the past, we have experienced significant weakness in sales to service providers over certain extended periods of time as market conditions have fluctuated. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network infrastructures; the availability of funding; and the extent to which service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and business conditions in the country of operations. Weakness in orders from this industry, including as a result of any slowdown in capital expenditures by service providers (which may be more prevalent during a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty), could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Such slowdowns may continue or recur in future periods. Orders from this industry could decline for many reasons other than the competitiveness of our products and services within their respective markets. For example, in the past, many of our service provider customers have been materially and adversely affected by slowdowns in the general economy, by overcapacity, by changes in the service provider market, by regulatory developments, and by constraints on capital availability, resulting in business failures and substantial reductions in spending and expansion plans. These conditions have materially harmed our business and operating results in the past, and some of these or other conditions in the service provider market could affect our business and operating results in any future period. Finally, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including design services; demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks; often require acceptance provisions, which can lead to a delay in revenue recognition; and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add further risk to business conducted with service providers. 
  DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN OUR DISTRIBUTION MODEL COULD HARM OUR SALES AND MARGINS  
  If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken, our revenue and gross margins could be adversely affected.  
  A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors. Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution, and a number of service providers are also systems integrators. Distributors stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.  We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is generally recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. If sales through indirect channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a degree, the timing of orders from our customers.  
  Historically, we have seen fluctuations in our gross margins based on changes in the balance of our distribution channels. Although variability to date has not been significant, there can be no assurance that changes in the balance of our distribution model in future periods would not have an adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability.  
    19 

       Table of Contents  

   Some factors could result in disruption of or changes in our distribution model, which could harm our sales and margins, including the following: 

We compete with some of our channel partners, including through our direct sales, which may lead these channel partners to use other suppliers that do not directly sell their own products or otherwise compete with them 

Some of our channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear 

Some of our channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions 

Revenue from indirect sales could suffer if our distributors  financial condition or operations weaken 

In addition, we depend on our channel partners globally to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. To the extent that they fail to do so, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  Further, sales of our products outside of agreed territories can result in disruption to the Company s distribution channels. 
  THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE COMPETE ARE INTENSELY COMPETITIVE, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ACHIEVEMENT OF REVENUE GROWTH  
  The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in newer product categories such as data center and collaboration and in our priorities. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.  For information regarding our competitors, see the section entitled  Competition  contained in   Item 1. Busines  s of this report. 
  Some of our competitors compete across many of our product lines, while others are primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with our products are regularly formed. In addition, some of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. As we expand into new markets, we will face competition not only from our existing competitors but also from other competitors, including existing companies with strong technological, marketing, and sales positions in those markets. We also sometimes face competition from resellers and distributors of our products. Companies with whom we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase.  
  For example, the enterprise data center is undergoing a fundamental transformation arising from the convergence of technologies, including computing, networking, storage, and software, that previously were segregated. Due to several factors, including the availability of highly scalable and general purpose microprocessors, application-specific integrated circuits offering advanced services, standards based protocols, cloud computing and virtualization, the convergence of technologies within the enterprise data center is spanning multiple, previously independent, technology segments. Also, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. As a result of all of these developments, we face greater competition in the development and sale of enterprise data center technologies, including competition from entities that are among our long-term strategic alliance partners. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. 
    
  The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:                        

The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services 

Product performance 

Price 

The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages 

The ability to reduce production costs 

20 

       Table of Contents  

The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection 

Conformance to standards 

Market presence 

The ability to provide financing 

Disruptive technology shifts and new business models 

We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.  
  OUR INVENTORY MANAGEMENT RELATING TO OUR SALES TO OUR TWO-TIER DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL IS COMPLEX, AND EXCESS INVENTORY MAY HARM OUR GROSS MARGINS  
  We must manage our inventory relating to sales to our distributors effectively, because inventory held by them could affect our results of operations. Our distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them, and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Revenue to our distributors  generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and they are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling price, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations. If we ultimately determine that we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins.  
  SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES, INCLUDING FINANCIAL PROBLEMS OF CONTRACT MANUFACTURERS OR COMPONENT SUPPLIERS, OR A SHORTAGE OF ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY OR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY THAT INCREASED OUR COSTS OR CAUSED A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO FULFILL ORDERS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, AND OUR FAILURE TO ESTIMATE CUSTOMER DEMAND PROPERLY MAY RESULT IN EXCESS OR OBSOLETE COMPONENT SUPPLY, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS MARGINS  
  The fact that we do not own or operate the bulk of our manufacturing facilities and that we are reliant on our extended supply chain could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results: 

Any financial problems of either contract manufacturers or component suppliers could either limit supply or increase costs 

Reservation of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs 

A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to appropriately cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. We have experienced longer than normal lead times in the past.  Although we have generally secured additional supply or taken other mitigation actions when significant disruptions have occurred, if similar situations occur in the future, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. See the risk factor above entitled  Our revenue for a particular period is difficult to predict, and a shortfall in revenue may harm our operating results.    
    21 

       Table of Contents  

   Our growth and ability to meet customer demands depend in part on our ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. We have experienced component shortages in the past, including shortages caused by manufacturing process issues, that have affected our operations. We may in the future experience a shortage of certain component parts as a result of our own manufacturing issues, manufacturing issues at our suppliers or contract manufacturers, capacity problems experienced by our suppliers or contract manufacturers, or strong demand in the industry for those parts.  Growth in the economy is likely to create greater pressures on us and our suppliers to accurately project overall component demand and component demands within specific product categories and to establish optimal component levels and manufacturing capacity, especially for labor-intensive components, components for which we purchase a substantial portion of the supply, or re-ramping manufacturing capacity for highly complex products. During periods of shortages or delays the price of components may increase, or the components may not be available at all, and we may also encounter shortages if we do not accurately anticipate our needs. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenue and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more components than we need, which is more likely to occur in a period of demand uncertainties such as we are currently experiencing. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources, and a global economic downturn and related market uncertainty could negatively impact the availability of components from one or more of these sources, especially during times such as we have recently seen when there are supplier constraints based on labor and other actions taken during economic downturns. We may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.  
  We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges in the future:     

New markets in which we participate may grow quickly, which may make it difficult to quickly obtain significant component capacity 

As we acquire companies and new technologies, we may be dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners 

We face competition for certain components that are supply-constrained, from existing competitors, and companies in other markets 

Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could continue to be significant issues for us. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to improve manufacturing lead-time performance and to help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. When facing component supply-related challenges, we have increased our efforts in procuring components in order to meet customer expectations which in turn contribute to an increase in purchase commitments. Increases in our purchase commitments to shorten lead times could also lead to excess and obsolete inventory charges if the demand for our products is less than our expectations. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of parts could result in excess or obsolete components that could adversely affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report.  
  WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PRODUCTS, AND IF WE FAIL TO PREDICT AND RESPOND TO EMERGING TECHNOLOGICAL TRENDS AND CUSTOMERS  CHANGING NEEDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MARKET SHARE MAY SUFFER  
  The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to reduce the production costs of existing products. We believe the industry is evolving to enable personal and business process collaboration enabled by networked technologies. As such, many of our strategic initiatives and investments are aimed at meeting the requirements that a network capable of multiple-party, collaborative interaction would demand, and the investments we have made and our architectural approach are designed to enable the increased use of the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT. For example, in fiscal 2009 we launched our Cisco Unified Computing System, our next-generation enterprise data center platform architected to unite computing, network, storage access, and virtualization resources in a single system, which is designed to address the fundamental transformation occurring in the enterprise data center. Cisco Unified Computing System is one of several priorities on which we are focusing resources. Another example of a market transition we are focusing on is the move towards more programmable, flexible and virtual  
    22 

       Table of Contents  

   networks.  In our view, this evolution is in its very early stages, and we believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine ASICs, hardware, and software elements together. 
  The process of developing new technology, including technology related to more programmable, flexible and virtual networks, is complex and uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers  changing needs and emerging technological trends our business could be harmed. We must commit significant resources, including the investments we have been making in our priorities to developing new products before knowing whether our investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if our model of the evolution of networking to collaborative systems does not emerge as we believe it will, or if the industry does not evolve as we believe it will, or if our strategy for addressing this evolution is not successful, many of our strategic initiatives and investments may be of no or limited value. For example, if we do not introduce products related to network programmability, such as software-defined-networking products, in a timely fashion, or if product offerings in this market that ultimately succeed are based on technology, or an approach to technology, that differs from ours, our business could be harmed.  Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our vision because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing, technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion, or a lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors, some of which may also be our strategic alliance partners, providing those solutions before we do and loss of market share, revenue, and earnings. The success of new products depends on several factors, including proper new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of these products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The products and technologies in our newer product categories such as Data Center and Collaboration as well as those in our Other Products category that we identify as  emerging technologies  may not prove to have the market success we anticipate, and we may not successfully identify and invest in other emerging or new products. 
  CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND MARKET CONDITIONS COULD LEAD TO CHARGES RELATED TO DISCONTINUANCES OF CERTAIN OF OUR PRODUCTS OR BUSINESSES, ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND WORKFORCE REDUCTIONS  
  In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources and to consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Any resource realignment, or decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses, may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel with contract manufacturers and suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment tests may result in a charge to earnings.  
  In August 2013, we announced that we are rebalancing our resources with a workforce reduction plan that will impact approximately 4,000 employees or 5% of our global workforce. We expect to take action under this plan beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, and we expect to incur significant charges as a result of these activities. The implementation of this workforce reduction plan may be disruptive to our business, and following completion of the workforce reduction plan our business may not be more efficient or effective than prior to implementation of the plan.  Our restructuring activities, including any related charges and the impact of the related headcount reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
  OVER THE LONG TERM WE INTEND TO INVEST IN ENGINEERING, SALES, SERVICE, MARKETING AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITIES, AND THESE INVESTMENTS MAY ACHIEVE DELAYED, OR LOWER THAN EXPECTED, BENEFITS WHICH COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS  
  While we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in personnel and other resources related to our engineering, sales, service, marketing and manufacturing functions as we focus on our foundational priorities, such as leadership in our core routing, switching and services, including security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected.  
    23 

       Table of Contents  

   OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS  
  A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth and evolution of the Internet, including the continued development of the Internet, and on the deployment of our products by customers who depend on such continued growth and evolution. To the extent that an economic slowdown or uncertainty and related reduction in capital spending adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure we could experience material harm to our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
  Because of the rapid introduction of new products and changing customer requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we believe that there could be performance problems with Internet communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity and visibility. Because we are a large supplier of networking products, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent of direct effects on our business.  
  WE HAVE MADE AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO MAKE ACQUISITIONS THAT COULD DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS  
  Our growth depends upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: 

Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies, particularly companies with large and widespread operations and/or complex products, such as Scientific-Atlanta, WebEx, Starent, Tandberg and NDS Group Limited 

Diversion of management s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions 

Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development intangibles 

Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions 

Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners 

Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions 

The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans 

Acquisitions may also cause us to:     

Issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders  percentage ownership 

Use a substantial portion of our cash resources, or incur debt, as we did in fiscal 2006 when we issued and sold $6.5 billion in senior unsecured notes to fund our acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta 

Significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition 

Assume liabilities 

Record goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets that are subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges 

Incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets 

Incur tax expenses related to the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany research and development ( R D ) cost sharing arrangement and legal structure 

24 

       Table of Contents  

Incur large and immediate write-offs and restructuring and other related expenses 

Become subject to intellectual property or other litigation 

Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products.  
  From time to time, we have made acquisitions that resulted in charges in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in any particular quarter, resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. In addition, our effective tax rate for future periods is uncertain and could be impacted by mergers and acquisitions. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. Please see the risk factors above, including the risk factor entitled  We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers  changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer  for additional information.  
  ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL COMPETITION AND WILL LIKELY INCREASE DEMANDS ON OUR SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS  
  As we focus on new market opportunities-for example, storage; wireless; security; transporting data, voice, and video traffic across the same network; and other areas within our newer products categories such as data center and collaboration, emerging technologies, and our priorities-we will increasingly compete with large telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several of our competitors may have greater resources, including technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past, especially in emerging countries. Demand for these types of service, support, or financing contracts may increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these market opportunities.  
  Further, provision of greater levels of services, support and financing by us may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. In addition, entry into other markets has subjected and will subject us to additional risks, particularly to those markets, including the effects of general market conditions and reduced consumer confidence.  
  INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION MAY LEAD TO INCREASED COMPETITION AND MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS  
  There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. For example, some of our current and potential competitors for enterprise data center business have made acquisitions, or announced new strategic alliances, designed to position them with the ability to provide end-to-end technology solutions for the enterprise data center. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market, rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants.  
  PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUE, GROSS MARGINS, AND NET INCOME  
  We produce highly complex products that incorporate leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Software typically contains bugs that can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects, either ones in individual products or ones that could affect numerous shipments, which might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or affect gross margins. From time to time, we have had to replace certain components and provide remediation in response to the discovery of defects or bugs in products that we had shipped. There can be no assurance that such remediation, depending on the product involved, would not have a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, or product reengineering expenses, any of which could have a material impact on our revenue, margins, and net income.  
    25 

       Table of Contents  

   DUE TO THE GLOBAL NATURE OF OUR OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES OR OTHER FACTORS IN A SPECIFIC COUNTRY OR REGION COULD HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION  
  We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries around the world and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers, component suppliers and distribution partners. Although sales in several of our emerging countries decreased in recent periods, several of our emerging countries generally have been relatively fast growing, and we have announced plans to expand our commitments and expectations in certain of those countries. As such, our growth depends in part on our increasing sales into emerging countries. Our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors relating to our operations inside and outside the United States, including impacts from the U.S. federal budget including the effect of the recent sequestration, tapering of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, and the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, including, among others, the following:     

Foreign currency exchange rates 

Political or social unrest 

Economic instability or weakness or natural disasters in a specific country or region; environmental and trade protection measures and other legal and regulatory requirements, some of which may affect our ability to import our products, to export our products from, or sell our products in various countries 

Political considerations that affect service provider and government spending patterns 

Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic 

Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations 

Adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on our global operations 

WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN MATERIAL LOSSES  
  Most of our sales are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days in the United States and, because of local customs or conditions, longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We expect demand for customer financing to continue, and recently we have been experiencing an increase in this demand as the credit markets have been impacted by the challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, including increased demand from customers in certain emerging countries.  
  We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services.  
  Our exposure to the credit risks relating to our financing activities described above may increase if our customers are adversely affected by a global economic downturn or periods of economic uncertainty. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks.  
  In the past, there have been significant bankruptcies among customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements, particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that additional losses will not be incurred. Although these losses have not been material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A portion of our sales is derived through our distributors. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such business terms. However, distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk, because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to meet payment obligations. Additionally, to the degree that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers  ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
    26 

       Table of Contents  

   WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES; IMPAIRMENT OF OUR INVESTMENTS COULD HARM OUR EARNINGS  
  We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes fixed income securities and equity investments in publicly traded companies, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer market price declines, as we experienced with some of our investments during fiscal 2009, we may recognize in earnings the decline in the fair value of our investments below their cost basis when the decline is judged to be other than temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the section titled  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  Our investments in private companies are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies.  
  WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS  
  Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Historically, our primary exposures have related to nondollar-denominated sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia and certain nondollar-denominated operating expenses and service cost of sales in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies.  
  Currently, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and options to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. Our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income.  
  OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS MAY PROVE DIFFICULT TO ENFORCE  
  We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products. Although we have been issued numerous patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents or other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or that our rights will, in fact, provide competitive advantages to us. Furthermore, many key aspects of networking technology are governed by industrywide standards, which are usable by all market entrants. In addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications or that claims allowed on any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The outcome of any actions taken in these foreign countries may be different than if such actions were determined under the laws of the United States. Although we are not dependent on any individual patents or group of patents for particular segments of the business for which we compete, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights to the totality of the features (including aspects of products protected other than by patent rights) in a market, we may find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage to others who need not incur the substantial expense, time, and effort required to create innovative products that have enabled us to be successful.  
  WE MAY BE FOUND TO INFRINGE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS  
  Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending patents, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical or even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringes or will infringe on the patent rights of others. The asserted claims and/or initiated litigation can include claims against us or our manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. Where claims are made by customers, resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships. There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, or that our indemnification by our suppliers will be adequate to cover our costs if a claim  
    27 

       Table of Contents  

   were brought directly against us or our customers. Furthermore, because of the potential for high court awards that are not necessarily predictable, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, if we are required to indemnify a customer with respect to a claim against the customer, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  
  Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions, as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Further, in the past, third parties have made infringement and similar claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition.  
  WE RELY ON THE AVAILABILITY OF THIRD-PARTY LICENSES  
  Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis could limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.  
  OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED AND DAMAGE TO OUR REPUTATION MAY OCCUR DUE TO PRODUCTION AND SALE OF COUNTERFEIT VERSIONS OF OUR PRODUCTS 
  As is the case with leading products around the world, our products are subject to efforts by third parties to produce counterfeit versions of our products. While we work diligently with law enforcement authorities in various countries to block the manufacture of counterfeit goods and to interdict their sale, and to detect counterfeit products in customer networks, and have succeeded in prosecuting counterfeiters and their distributors, resulting in fines, imprisonment and restitution to us, there can be no guarantee that such efforts will succeed.  While counterfeiters often aim their sales at customers who might not have otherwise purchased our products due to lack of verifiability of origin and service, such counterfeit sales, to the extent they replace otherwise legitimate sales, could adversely affect our operating results. 
  OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED BY UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET  
  Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using IP, encryption technology, sales or other taxes on Internet product or service sales, and access charges for Internet service providers. The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
  CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND TARIFFS COULD HARM OUR PROSPECTS AND FUTURE SALES  
  Changes in telecommunications requirements, or regulatory requirements in other industries in which we operate, in the United States or other countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe that there may be future changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations that could slow the expansion of the service providers  network infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
  Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various requirements and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and other regulatory authorities. In countries outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of local telecommunications and other industry authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
    28 

       Table of Contents  

   FAILURE TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL WOULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO MEET KEY OBJECTIVES  
  Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Stock incentive plans are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions and provide incentives for them to remain with us. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price or equity incentive awards, or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, resulting from the management of share dilution and share-based compensation expense or otherwise, may also adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. As a result of one or more of these factors, we may increase our hiring in geographic areas outside the United States, which could subject us to additional geopolitical and exchange rate risk. The loss of services of any of our key personnel; the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future; or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. In addition, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future. 
  ADVERSE RESOLUTION OF LITIGATION OR GOVERNMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS MAY HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION  
  We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. For example, Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Brazilian federal tax authorities asserted an additional claim against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with respect to an alleged underpayment of income taxes, social taxes, interest, and penalties by a Brazilian distributor. The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2008 and the related asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to approximately   $385 million   for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, approximately   $1.1 billion   for interest, and approximately   $1.7 billion   for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of    July 27, 2013  . We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years. An unfavorable resolution of lawsuits or governmental investigations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For additional information regarding certain of the matters in which we are involved, see Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  contained in Part I of this report.  
  CHANGES IN OUR PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS  
  Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit or domestic manufacturing deduction laws; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attribute prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  
    29 

       Table of Contents  

   OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS ARE ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS  
  Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development operations are located in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally, a certain number of our facilities are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past. Also certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have or may be affected by earthquake, tsunami and flooding activity which in the past has disrupted, and in the future could disrupt, the flow of components and delivery of products. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition.  
  MAN-MADE PROBLEMS SUCH AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM MAY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS AND HARM OUR OPERATING RESULTS  
  Despite our implementation of network security measures our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Efforts to limit the ability of malicious third parties to disrupt the operations of the Internet or undermine our own security efforts may meet with resistance. In addition, the continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the economies of the United States and other countries and create further uncertainties or otherwise materially harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Likewise, events such as widespread blackouts could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  
  IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM SUCH ALLIANCES AND WE MAY EXPERIENCE INCREASED COMPETITION OR DELAYS IN PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT  
  We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and other companies with which we work to offer complementary products and services and have established a joint venture to market services associated with our Cisco Unified Computing System products. These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. There can be no assurance we will realize the expected benefits from these strategic alliances or from the joint venture. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and result in industry growth. However, alliances carry an element of risk because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product development or other operational difficulties. Joint ventures can be difficult to manage, given the potentially different interests of joint venture partners.  
  OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE  
  Historically, our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a result of variations between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our competitors and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business, security of our products, or significant transactions can cause changes in our stock price. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. Additionally, volatility, lack of positive performance in our stock price or changes to our overall compensation program, including our stock incentive program, may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, virtually all of whom are compensated, in part, based on the performance of our stock price.  
    30 

       Table of Contents  

   THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION WILL NOT BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY OUR INCURRENCE OF DEBT  
  We have senior unsecured notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $  16.0 billion   that mature at specific dates in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, 2039 and 2040. We have also established a commercial paper program under which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes on a private placement basis up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of   $3.0 billion  . We had no commercial paper notes outstanding under this program as of   July 27, 2013  .    The outstanding senior unsecured notes bear fixed-rate interest payable semiannually, except   $1.25 billion   of the notes which bears interest at a floating rate payable quarterly. The fair value of the long-term debt is subject to market interest rate volatility. The instruments governing the senior unsecured notes contain certain covenants applicable to us and our subsidiaries that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, we will be required to have available in the United States sufficient cash to repay all of our notes on maturity. There can be no assurance that our incurrence of this debt or any future debt will be a better means of providing liquidity to us than would our use of our existing cash resources, including cash currently held offshore. Further, we cannot be assured that our maintenance of this indebtedness or incurrence of future indebtedness will not adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the terms upon which we may borrow under our commercial paper program. 
    
                   Item 1B. 
    Unresolved Staff Comments 

Not applicable. 
    
                   Item 2. 
    Properties 

Our corporate headquarters are located at an owned site in San Jose, California, in the United States of America.    
  The locations of our headquarters by geographic segment are as follows: 
                       Americas 
      
    EMEA 
      
    APJC 
      San Jose, California, USA 
      
    Amsterdam, Netherlands 
      
    Singapore 

In addition to our headquarters site, we own additional sites in the United States, which include facilities in the surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Richardson, Texas; Lawrenceville, Georgia; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. We also own land for expansion in some of these locations. In addition, we lease office space in many U.S. locations. 
  Outside the United States our operations are conducted primarily in leased sites, such as our Globalisation Centre East campus in Bangalore, India. Other significant sites (in addition to the two non-U.S. headquarters locations) are located in  Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway and the United Kingdom.  
  We believe that our existing facilities, including both owned and leased, are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. For additional information regarding obligations under operating leases, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
    31 

     Table of Contents  

Item 3. 
    Legal Proceedings 

Brazilian authorities have investigated our Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of our products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties. In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Brazilian federal tax authorities asserted an additional claim against our Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with respect to an alleged underpayment of income taxes, social taxes, interest, and penalties by a Brazilian distributor.  
  The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2008, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to approximately   $385 million   for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, approximately   $1.1 billion   for interest, and approximately   $1.7 billion   for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of   July 27, 2013  . We have completed a thorough review of the matters and believe the asserted claims against our Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and we are defending the claims vigorously. While we believe there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against our Brazilian subsidiary and are unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. We do not expect a final judicial determination for several years. 
  On March 31, 2011 and April 12, 2011, purported shareholder class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against Cisco and certain of its officers and directors. The lawsuits were  consolidated, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed on December 2, 2011. The consolidated action was  purportedly brought on behalf of purchasers of Cisco s publicly traded securities between February 3, 2010 and May 11, 2011. Plaintiffs alleged that defendants made false and misleading statements, purported to assert claims for violations of the federal securities laws, and sought unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. On February 12, 2012, we filed a motion seeking to dismiss all claims in the amended complaint. On March 29, 2013, the Court granted our motion and dismissed the amended complaint, finding no facts or inferences to support the plaintiffs  allegations. Plaintiffs chose not to file an amended complaint and not to pursue an appeal. The Court dismissed the entire lawsuit with prejudice on April 29, 2013. 
  Beginning on April 8, 2011, a number of purported shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in both the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the California Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara against our Board of Directors and several of our officers. The federal lawsuits have been consolidated in the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs in both the federal and state derivative actions allege that the Board allowed certain officers to make allegedly false and misleading statements. The complaint includes claims for violation of the federal securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and violations of the California Corporations Code. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, and other relief. In light of the United States District Court s dismissal of the purported shareholder class action noted above, the consolidated federal derivative action was dismissed on May 9, 2013, and the state derivative lawsuits were dismissed on May 16, 2013. 
  We were subject to patent claims asserted by VirnetX, Inc. on August 11, 2010 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  VirnetX alleged that various of our products that implement a method for secure communication using virtual private networks infringe certain patents.  VirnetX sought monetary damages.  The trial on these claims began on March 4, 2013. On March 14, 2013, the jury entered a verdict finding that our accused products do not infringe any of VirnetX s patents asserted in the lawsuit. On April 3, 2013, VirnetX filed a motion seeking a new trial on the issue of infringement, which we have opposed. The Court held a hearing on VirnetX s motion for a new trial in June 2013 but has not issued a ruling. 
  We were subject to numerous patent, tort, and contract claims asserted by XpertUniverse on March 10, 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Shortly before trial, the Court dismissed on summary judgment all claims initially asserted by XpertUniverse except a claim for infringement of two XpertUniverse patents and a claim for fraud by concealment. XpertUniverse s remaining patent claims alleged that three Cisco products in the field of expertise location software infringed two XpertUniverse patents. XpertUniverse s fraud by concealment claim alleged that we did not disclose our decision not to admit XpertUniverse into a partner program.  The trial on these remaining claims began on March 11, 2013. On March 22, 2013, the jury entered a verdict finding that two of our products infringed two of XpertUniverse s patents and awarded XpertUniverse damages of less than   $35 thousand  . The jury also found for XpertUniverse on its fraud by concealment claim and awarded damages of   $70 million  . We believe we have strong arguments to overturn the fraud damage award or to obtain a new trial. In May and June, 2013, we filed post-trial motions. The Court has not yet set a date for a hearing.  If the Court does not grant our post-trial motions, we will pursue an appeal.  While the ultimate outcome of the case may still result in a loss, we do not expect it to be material. 
    32 

     Table of Contents  

Cisco and a service provider customer were subject to patent claims asserted by TiVo, Inc. ( TiVo ) on June 4, 2012 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  TiVo alleged that our digital video recorders deployed by the service provider customer infringed certain of its patents.  TiVo sought monetary damages and injunctive relief.  The trial on these claims was scheduled to begin in March 2014.  TiVo previously filed a similar patent lawsuit, which was scheduled for trial in June 2013, against the same service provider customer, accusing digital video recorders manufactured by one of our competitors.  Beginning in late May 2013, prior to that trial, the parties to that case and Cisco conducted a mediation which resulted in a settlement and dismissal of all outstanding litigation between the parties.  Under the terms of the settlement, in exchange for a single, lump sum monetary payment to TiVo by Cisco of $294 million, Cisco received a perpetual license to the patents-in-suit, Cisco and TiVo entered into a ten year cross license applicable to the video field, and Cisco and TiVo agreed  not to sue one another for infringement of any other patents for a period of five years.  In connection with the settlement, we recorded $172 million to cost of sales during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, with the remainder of the settlement recorded against the amounts previously reserved and as an intangible asset to be amortized over its estimated useful life. 
  In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, we do not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For additional information regarding intellectual property litigation, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors-We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others  herein. 
    
                   Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures 

Not Applicable. 
    
    33 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
    
                   Item 5. 
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

(a) 
    Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. Information regarding the market prices of Cisco common stock as well as quarterly cash dividends declared on Cisco s common stock during fiscal 2013 and 2012 may be found in Supplementary Financial Data on page 121 of this report. There were 51,132 registered shareholders as of September 4, 2013. 
              (b) 
    Not Applicable. 
              (c) 
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (in millions, except per-share amounts): 

On September 13, 2001, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a stock repurchase program. As of   July 27, 2013  , our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to   $82 billion   of common stock under this program. During   fiscal 2013  , we repurchased and retired   128 million   shares of our common stock at an average price of   $21.63   per share for an aggregate purchase price of   $2.8 billion  . As of   July 27, 2013  , we had repurchased and retired   3.9 billion   shares of our common stock at an average price of   $20.40   per share for an aggregate purchase price of   $78.9 billion   since inception of the stock repurchase program, and the remaining authorized amount for stock repurchases under this program was   $3.1 billion   with no termination date. 
  For the majority of restricted stock units granted, the number of shares issued on the date the restricted stock units vest is net of shares withheld to meet applicable tax withholding requirements. Although these withheld shares are not issued or considered common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program and therefore are not included in the preceding table, they are treated as common stock repurchases in our financial statements as they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting (see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
    34 

     Table of Contents  

   Stock Performance Graph  
  The information contained in this Stock Performance Graph section shall not be deemed to be  soliciting material  or  filed  or incorporated by reference in future filings with the SEC, or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Cisco specifically incorporates it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
  The following graph shows a five-year comparison of the cumulative total shareholder return on Cisco common stock with the cumulative total returns of the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in the Company s common stock and in each of the indexes (with the reinvestment of all dividends) on July 25, 2008. Shareholder returns over the indicated period are based on historical data and should not be considered indicative of future shareholder returns. 
  Comparison of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Cisco Systems, Inc., 
  the S P Information Technology Index and the S P 500 Index 

35 

       Table of Contents  

                  Item 6. 
    Selected Financial Data 

Five Years Ended   July 27, 2013   (in millions, except per-share amounts) 

(1)   
    In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Cisco settled all outstanding items related to its federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 28, 2007. As a result of the settlement, Cisco recorded a net tax benefit of $794 million.  Also during the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit, retroactive to January 1, 2012.  As a result of the credit, Cisco recognized tax benefits of $184 million in fiscal 2013, of which $72 million related to fiscal 2012 R D expenses. 
               (2)   
    Net income for the year ended July 30, 2011 included restructuring and other charges of $694 million, net of tax.  See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
     No other factors materially affected the comparability of the information presented above.  

36 

       Table of Contents  

                  Item 7. 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Forward-Looking Statements 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including this Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933 (the  Securities Act ) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ). All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   targets,   goals,   projects,   intends,   plans,   believes,   seeks,   estimates,   continues,   endeavors,   strives,   may,  variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, our anticipated growth and trends in our businesses, and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified below, under  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and elsewhere herein. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason. 
    
    OVERVIEW 
  We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP) based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are utilized at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences.    
    
  A summary of our results is as follows (in millions, except percentages and per-share amounts): 

37 

     Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 Financial Performance 
  Revenue increased   6%  , with product revenue increasing   5%   and service revenue increasing   9%  . Total gross margin decreased by   0.6   percentage points. Various items such as higher amortization of purchased intangible assets and the TiVo patent litigation settlement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 contributed to the product gross margin percentage decline.  As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively declined by   1.4   percentage points, primarily due to lower sales and marketing expenses and lower general and administrative expenses. General and administrative expenses were lower due primarily to the absence in the current fiscal year of impairment charges on real estate held for sale. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by   1.1   percentage points, primarily as a result of an increase in revenue, lower restructuring charges, and our continuing focus on expense management. Diluted earnings per share increased by   25%   from the prior year, a result of both a   24%   increase in net income and also, to a lesser degree, from a slight decline of   24 million   shares in our diluted share count. A significant driver of the increase in net income in fiscal 2013 was our realization of additional tax benefits of $1.0 billion, primarily related to a tax settlement with the IRS and the reinstatement of the U.S. federal R D tax credit. 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 Business Summary 
  Our solid   fiscal 2013   performance reflects our continued execution on our financial strategy to deliver profitable growth to maximize shareholder value for the long term. In what continues to be a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment, we grew profits faster than revenue, with revenue increasing by   6%  , while net income increased by   24%  .  
  In   fiscal 2013  , revenue increased by   $2.5 billion  . The Americas contributed   $2.1 billion   of the increase, led by higher sales in the United States. APJC contributed   $0.3 billion   to the revenue increase, led by strong sales growth in India. EMEA added   $0.1 billion   to the revenue increase in fiscal 2013. Both our product and service categories experienced revenue growth across each of our geographic segments. We encountered certain challenges from a geographic perspective, including those related to macroeconomic challenges in much of Europe. We also faced some macroeconomic challenges in APJC, particularly in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, which most notably involved China and Japan. Partially offsetting these challenges was solid revenue growth in   fiscal 2013   in certain emerging countries such as Mexico within the Americas, India within APJC, and Russia within EMEA.  
  From a customer markets standpoint, in   fiscal 2013   we had solid revenue growth in the commercial market, as well as growth in the service provider market, due in large part to the acquisition of NDS. The enterprise and public sector customer markets experienced slight declines in revenue in   fiscal 2013   as compared with fiscal 2012. Global public sector spending was a challenge for us in   fiscal 2013  , particularly in the Americas, attributable in part to lower U.S. public sector spending during parts of fiscal 2013 as compared with fiscal 2012. 
  In   fiscal 2013  , product revenue increased by   $1.7 billion  , while service revenue increased by   $0.8 billion  . The product revenue increase was driven by the following: an increase of   $1.0 billion   from Service Provider Video products, driven primarily by the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of   fiscal 2013  ; an increase of   $0.8 billion   from Data Center products, due to continued strong customer demand; and an increase of   $0.5 billion   from Wireless products, due to continued demand for these solutions. These product revenue increases, along with the service revenue contribution, reflect, in our view, the success we are experiencing with our technology architectures and our ability to deliver customer solutions, particularly in both the enterprise and service provider data center and cloud environments. Overall, our product revenue from our core product areas was flat as an increase in revenue from our Switching products was offset by a decrease in revenue from our NGN Routing products. 
  We achieved solid and profitable growth in   fiscal 2013  , and did so in a challenging and inconsistent global macroeconomic environment. This included, in particular, weakness in the European economy, lower global public sector spending, and a conservative approach to IT-related capital spending by customers. Notwithstanding improvements we saw in some of these areas during the latter part of fiscal 2013, our business in fiscal 2014 may continue to be impacted by these challenges, as well as other macroeconomic challenges including weakness in certain emerging countries, such as China.    
    
  In order to invest more significantly in our growth opportunity areas of our portfolio including cloud, Data Center, mobility, services, software and security, we will rebalance our resources in fiscal 2014. As a result, we have announced a workforce reduction plan that will impact approximately 4,000 employees or 5% of our global workforce.  We expect that these actions will position Cisco to invest in these growth opportunities as our business continues to evolve and to drive operational efficiencies. 

38 

     Table of Contents  

   Fourth Quarter Snapshot 
  For the fourth quarter of   fiscal 2013  , as compared with the corresponding period in   fiscal 2012  , revenue increased by   6%  , with both product and service revenue increasing by   6%  . With regard to our geographic segment performance, on a year-over-year basis, revenue increased by   7%   in the Americas, increased by   12%   in EMEA, and decreased by   3%   in APJC. Total gross margin decreased by   1.4   percentage points, primarily as a result of the TiVo patent litigation settlement.  As a percentage of revenue, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses collectively declined by   2.9   percentage points, primarily due to lower general and administrative expenses. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, general and administrative expenses included $202 million of real estate charges, primarily related to impairment charges on real estate held for sale. Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased by   2.4   percentage points, primarily as a result of lower general and administrative expenses, lower restructuring and other charges, and also the impact of our revenue increase. Diluted earnings per share increased by   17%   from the prior year period, primarily as a result of an   18%   increase in net income. 
  Strategy and Focus Areas 
  Our focus continues to be on our five foundational priorities  : 
             
    Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions  
                
    Collaboration  
                
    Data center virtualization and cloud  
                
    Video 
                
    Architectures for business transformation 
     We believe that focusing on these priorities best positions us to continue to expand our share of our customers  information technology spending.    For a full discussion of our strategy and focus areas, see Item 1. Business. 
  Other Key Financial Measures 
  The following is a summary of our other key financial measures for fiscal 2013 compared with fiscal 2012 (in millions, except days sales outstanding in accounts receivable (DSO) and annualized inventory turns):  

Our product backlog at the end of   fiscal 2013   was   $4.9 billion  , or   10%   of   fiscal 2013   total revenue, compared with   $5.0 billion   at the end of   fiscal 2012  , or   11%   of   fiscal 2012   total revenue. 
    
    39 

       Table of Contents  

   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES 
  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make judgments, assumptions, and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes.  Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates.  Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. 
  Revenue Recognition  
  Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: 
             
    Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists.   Contracts, Internet commerce agreements, and customer purchase orders are generally used to determine the existence of an arrangement. 
                
    Delivery has occurred.   Shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, are used to verify delivery. 
                
    The fee is fixed or determinable.   We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. 
                
    Collectibility is reasonably assured.   We assess collectibility based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer s payment history. 
     In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met.  When a sale involves multiple deliverables, such as sales of products that include services, the multiple deliverables are evaluated to determine the unit of accounting, and the entire fee from the arrangement is allocated to each unit of accounting based on the relative selling price.  Revenue is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria for each unit of accounting are met. 
  The amount of product and service revenue recognized in a given period is affected by our judgment as to whether an arrangement includes multiple deliverables and, if so, our valuation of the units of accounting for multiple deliverables. According to the accounting guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605,   Revenue Recognition  , we use vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price (VSOE) for each of those units, when available. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately.  In determining VSOE, we require that a substantial majority of the historical standalone transactions have the selling prices for a product or service fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. When VSOE does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy to applicable multiple-deliverable arrangements.  Under the selling price hierarchy, third-party evidence of selling price (TPE) will be considered if VSOE does not exist, and estimated selling price (ESP) will be used if neither VSOE nor TPE is available.  Generally, we are not able to determine TPE because our go-to-market strategy differs from that of others in our markets, and the extent of our proprietary technology varies among comparable products or services from those of our peers.  In determining ESP, we apply significant judgment as we weigh a variety of factors, based on the facts and circumstances of the arrangement.  We typically arrive at an ESP for a product or service that is not sold separately by considering company-specific factors such as geographies, competitive landscape, internal costs, profitability objectives, pricing practices used to establish bundled pricing, and existing portfolio pricing and discounting.  
  Some of our sales arrangements have multiple deliverables containing software and related software support components. Such sales arrangements are subject to the accounting guidance in ASC 985-605,   Software-Revenue Recognition  . 
  As our business and offerings evolve over time, our pricing practices may be required to be modified accordingly, which could result in changes in selling prices, including both VSOE and ESP, in subsequent periods. There were no material impacts during   fiscal 2013  , nor do we currently expect a material impact in the next 12 months on our revenue recognition due to any changes in our VSOE, TPE, or ESP.  
  Revenue deferrals relate to the timing of revenue recognition for specific transactions based on financing arrangements, service, support, and other factors. Financing arrangements may include sales-type, direct-financing, and operating leases, loans, and guarantees of third-party financing. Our deferred revenue for products was   $4.0 billion   and   $3.7 billion   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which typically is from one to three years. Advanced services revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. Our deferred revenue for services was   $9.4 billion   and   $9.2 billion   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. 
    
    40 

       Table of Contents  

   We make sales to distributors which we refer to as two-tier systems of sales to the end customer.  Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them.  Our distributors participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for these programs.  If actual credits received by our distributors under these programs were to deviate significantly from our estimates, which are based on historical experience, our revenue could be adversely affected. 
  Allowances for Receivables and Sales Returns 
  The allowances for receivables were as follows (in millions, except percentages): 

The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of these allowances by considering internal factors such as historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, as well as external factors such as economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay and expected default frequency rates, which are published by major third-party credit-rating agencies and are generally updated on a quarterly basis. We also consider the concentration of receivables outstanding with a particular customer in assessing the adequacy of our allowances for doubtful accounts. If a major customer's creditworthiness deteriorates, if actual defaults are higher than our historical experience, or if other circumstances arise, our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to us could be overstated, and additional allowances could be required, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. 
  The allowance for credit loss on financing receivables is also based on the assessment of collectibility of customer accounts. We regularly review the adequacy of the credit allowances determined either on an individual or a collective basis. When evaluating the financing receivables on an individual basis, we consider historical experience, credit quality and age of receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay.   When evaluating financing receivables on a collective basis, we use expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as our own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk and correlation.  Determining expected default frequency rates and loss factors associated with internal credit risk ratings, as well as assessing factors such as economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation, are complex and subjective. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit loss in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results.   
  Both accounts receivable and financing receivables are charged off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. 
  A reserve for future sales returns is established based on historical trends in product return rates. The reserve for future sales returns as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   was   $119 million   and   $129 million  , respectively, and was recorded as a reduction of our accounts receivable.  If the actual future returns were to deviate from the historical data on which the reserve had been established, our revenue could be adversely affected.  
  Inventory Valuation and Liability for Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers 
  Our inventory balance was   $1.5 billion   and   $1.7 billion   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. Inventory is written down based on excess and obsolete inventories, determined primarily by future demand forecasts. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market, based upon assumptions about future demand, and are charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of our cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. 
  We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. As of   July 27, 2013  , the liability for these purchase commitments was   $172 million  , compared with   $193 million   as of   July 28, 2012  , and was included in other current liabilities. 
    41 

       Table of Contents  

   Our provision for inventory was   $114 million  ,   $115 million  , and   $196 million   for   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. The provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers was   $106 million  ,   $151 million  , and   $114 million   in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. The decrease in our provision for the liability related to purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for   fiscal 2013   was primarily due to the increase in demand for our products resulting in lower inventory levels with our contract manufacturers during fiscal 2013. If there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to increase our inventory write-downs, and our liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, and accordingly our profitability, could be adversely affected. We regularly evaluate our exposure for inventory write-downs and the adequacy of our liability for purchase commitments. Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence, particularly in light of current macroeconomic uncertainties and conditions and the resulting potential for changes in future demand forecast.  
  Warranty Costs 
  The liability for product warranties, included in other current liabilities, was   $431 million   as of   July 27, 2013  , compared with   $415 million   as of   July 28, 2012  . See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from 90 days to five years, and for some products we provide a limited lifetime warranty. We accrue for warranty costs as part of our cost of sales based on associated material costs, technical support labor costs, and associated overhead. Material cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the volume of product returns within the warranty period and the cost to repair or replace the equipment. Technical support labor cost is estimated based primarily upon historical trends in the rate of customer cases and the cost to support the customer cases within the warranty period. Overhead cost is applied based on estimated time to support warranty activities. 
  The provision for product warranties issued during   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011   was   $664 million  ,   $661 million  , and   $456 million  , respectively. If we experience an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or if the cost of servicing warranty claims is greater than expected, our profitability could be adversely affected. 
  Share-Based Compensation Expense 
  Share-based compensation expense is presented as follows (in millions): 

Restricted stock units are valued using the market value of our common stock on the date of grant, discounted for the present value of expected dividends. Restricted stock unit awards with market-based conditions are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The determination of the fair value of employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. For employee stock options and employee stock purchase rights, these variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the risk-free interest rate, and expected dividends as of the grant date. For employee stock options, we historically have used the implied volatility for two-year traded options on our stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the lattice-binomial model. For employee stock purchase rights, we used the implied volatility for traded options (with lives corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on our stock. The selection of the implied volatility approach was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility.  The valuation of employee stock options (granted in prior fiscal years, but for which expense was recognized during the fiscal years presented) is also impacted by kurtosis and skewness, which are technical measures of the distribution of stock price returns and the actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors.  
  Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current year. 
    42 

       Table of Contents  

   Fair Value Measurements 
  Our fixed income and publicly traded equity securities, collectively, are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at a fair value of   $42.7 billion   as of   July 27, 2013  , compared with   $38.9 billion   as of   July 28, 2012  . Our fixed income investment portfolio, as of   July 27, 2013  , consisted primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  As described more fully in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a valuation hierarchy is based on the level of independent, objective evidence available regarding the value of the investments. It encompasses three classes of investments: Level 1 consists of securities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical securities; Level 2 consists of securities for which observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs are used, such as quoted prices for similar securities in active markets or quoted prices for identical securities in less active markets and model-derived valuations for which the variables are derived from, or corroborated by, observable market data; and Level 3 consists of securities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value. 
  Our Level 2 securities are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. We use inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from independent pricing vendors, quoted market prices, or other sources to determine the ultimate fair value of our assets and liabilities. We use such pricing data as the primary input, to which we have not made any material adjustments during   fiscal 2013 and 2012  , to make our assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of our investment portfolio. We are ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. 
  The inputs and fair value are reviewed for reasonableness, may be further validated by comparison to publicly available information, and could be adjusted based on market indices or other information that management deems material to its estimate of fair value. The assessment of fair value can be difficult and subjective. However, given the relative reliability of the inputs we use to value our investment portfolio, and because substantially all of our valuation inputs are obtained using quoted market prices for similar or identical assets, we do not believe that the nature of estimates and assumptions affected by levels of subjectivity and judgment was material to the valuation of the investment portfolio as of   July 27, 2013  . We had no Level 3 investments in our total portfolio as of   July 27, 2013  . 
  Other-than-Temporary Impairments  
  We recognize an impairment charge when the declines in the fair values of our fixed income or publicly traded equity securities below their cost basis are judged to be other than temporary. The ultimate value realized on these securities, to the extent unhedged, is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. 
  If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, we assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) we have the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on (i) or (ii) described in the prior sentence, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit loss, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). In estimating the amount and timing of cash flows expected to be collected, we consider all available information, including past events, current conditions, the remaining payment terms of the security, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of underlying collateral. 
  For publicly traded equity securities, we consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than our cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 
  Impairment charges on our investments in publicly traded equity securities were not material in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  . There were no impairment charges on investments in fixed income securities in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  . Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income. 
  We also have investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development stages. As of   July 27, 2013  , our investments in privately held companies were   $833 million  , compared with   $858 million   as of   July 28, 2012  , and were included in other assets. We monitor these investments for events or circumstances indicative of potential impairment and will make appropriate reductions in carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. Our impairment charges on investments in privately held companies were $33 million,   $23 million  , and   $10 million   in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. 
    43 

       Table of Contents  

   Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Asset Impairments 
  Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to purchase acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. Goodwill represents a residual value as of the acquisition date, which in most cases results in measuring goodwill as an excess of the purchase consideration transferred plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interest in the acquired company over the fair value of net assets acquired, including contingent consideration. We perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and between annual tests in certain circumstances for each reporting unit. The assessment of fair value for goodwill and purchased intangible assets is based on factors that market participants would use in an orderly transaction in accordance with the new accounting guidance for the fair value measurement of nonfinancial assets. 
  The goodwill recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   was   $21.9 billion   and   $17.0 billion  , respectively. The increase in goodwill for fiscal 2013 was due in large part to our acquisitions of NDS and Meraki. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we could be required to strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses, which could result in an impairment of goodwill. There was no impairment of goodwill resulting from our annual impairment testing in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  . For the annual impairment testing in   fiscal 2013  , the excess of the fair value over the carrying value for each of our reporting units was $38.7 billion for the Americas, $15.5 billion for EMEA, and $17.8 billion for APJC.  We performed a sensitivity analysis for goodwill impairment with respect to each of our respective reporting units and determined that a hypothetical 10% decline in the fair value of each reporting unit as of   July 27, 2013   would not result in an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit.  
  We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. Recoverability of purchased intangible assets with finite lives is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the future discounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our purchased intangible assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. There was no impairment charge related to purchased intangible assets during   fiscal 2013  . Our impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets were   $12 million   and   $164 million   during   fiscal 2012   and   2011  , respectively. Our ongoing consideration of all the factors described previously could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could adversely affect our net income.  
  Income Taxes 
  We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, R D tax credits, domestic manufacturing deductions, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation, international realignments, and transfer pricing adjustments. Our effective tax rate was   11.1%  ,   20.8%  , and   17.1%   in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. 
  Significant judgment is required in evaluating our uncertain tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. Although we believe our reserves are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different from that which is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. 
  Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence, including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income, and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. 
    44 

       Table of Contents  

   Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in the R D tax credit or domestic manufacturing deduction laws; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by transfer pricing adjustments, including the effect of acquisitions on our intercompany R D cost-sharing arrangement and legal structure; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by tax costs related to intercompany realignments; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. Significant judgment is required to determine the recognition and measurement attributes prescribed in the accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. The accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes applies to all income tax positions, including the potential recovery of previously paid taxes, which if settled unfavorably could adversely impact our provision for income taxes or additional paid-in capital. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 
  Loss Contingencies 
  We are subject to the possibility of various losses arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss, in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss contingency is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required.  
  Third parties, including customers, have in the past and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation related to exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims assertions, particularly in the United States. If any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 
    45 

       Table of Contents  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  Revenue 
  The following table presents the breakdown of revenue between product and service (in millions, except percentages): 

We manage our business primarily on a geographic basis, organized into three geographic segments. Our revenue, which includes product and service, for each segment is summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): 

Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012    
  For   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , total revenue increased by   6%  . Within total revenue growth, product revenue increased by   5%  , while service revenue increased by   9%  . Our product and service revenue totals reflect revenue growth across each of our geographic segments. The revenue increase was primarily due to the following: the solid performance of our Service offerings, our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013, and increased demand for our Data Center and Wireless products. 
  We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our revenue to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our revenue is influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. 
  In addition to the impact of macroeconomic factors, including a reduced IT spending environment and budget-driven reductions in spending by government entities, revenue by segment in a particular period may be significantly impacted by several factors related to revenue recognition, including the complexity of transactions such as multiple-element arrangements; the mix of financing arrangements provided to our channel partners and customers; and final acceptance of the product, system, or solution, among other factors. In addition, certain customers tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may also be affected by the timing of revenue recognition, which in turn would impact the revenue of the relevant segment. As has been the case in certain of our emerging countries from time to time, customers require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, and these activities may occur in future periods, which may also impact the timing of the recognition of revenue. 
    46 

     Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011    
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , total revenue increased by   7%  . Within total revenue growth, product revenue increased by   5%  , while service revenue increased by   12%  . Our product and service revenue totals reflected revenue growth across each of our geographic segments. The revenue increase was primarily due to the following: the strong performance of our Service offerings; new product transitions taking place in Switching; and increased demand for our Data Center, Service Provider Video, and Wireless products. 
    
    Product Revenue by Segment 
  The following table presents the breakdown of product revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages): 

Americas 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012    
  For   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , product revenue in the Americas segment increased by   7%  . The increase in product revenue was across most of our customer markets in the Americas segment, led by solid growth in the service provider and commercial markets and, to a lesser degree, growth in the enterprise market. The growth in product revenue in the service provider market was due in large part to our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Within the Americas segment, we experienced a product revenue decline in the public sector market, driven by lower sales to the public sector in the United States.  From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 9% in the United States, 13% in Brazil, and 7% in Mexico.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we experienced some weakness in our business momentum in certain countries within Latin America.                  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011    
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , product revenue in the Americas segment increased by   5%  . The increase in product revenue was across most of our customer markets in the Americas segment, led by growth in the enterprise, service provider and commercial markets. We experienced a product revenue decline in the public sector market for the fiscal year. Within the Americas segment, product revenue to the U.S. public sector was flat, as lower product revenue to the U.S. federal government was offset by higher product revenue to state and local government.  From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 4% in the United States, 10% in Canada,  21% in Mexico, and 14% in Brazil.    
  EMEA 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012    
  In fiscal 2013, we experienced a continuation of many of the macroeconomic challenges we faced in EMEA in fiscal 2012.  While we did see some improvements in most of the European economy as the fiscal year progressed, we continued to see weakness in southern Europe throughout fiscal 2013.  For   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , product revenue in the EMEA segment was flat, as growth in the commercial, service provider and public sector markets was offset by a decline in the enterprise market. The growth in product revenue in the service provider market was due to our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 1% in the United Kingdom, 11% in Russia, 4% in Switzerland, and 3% in Spain. These increases were offset by product revenue declines of 3% in each of Germany and France and 13% in the Netherlands. Product revenue for Italy was flat year over year.   
    
    47 

     Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011    
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , product revenue in the EMEA segment increased by   2%  . The increase was across most of our customer markets in the EMEA segment, led by growth in the commercial, enterprise and public sector markets. We experienced a slight decline in product revenue in the service provider customer market during the fiscal year driven by lower revenue from this customer market in several of the large countries in the region. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 11% in the United Kingdom, 15% in Russia, and 9% in the Netherlands. These increases were partially offset by product revenue declines of 23% in Italy, 21% in Spain, 2% in Germany, and 1% in France. 
  We believe that the slower growth we experienced in EMEA was a result of weak macroeconomic conditions attributable in large part to the austerity measures taking place in parts of the region. In particular, we experienced weakness in this segment during the second half of fiscal 2012, with a year-over-year decline in product revenue in this segment during the fourth quarter. 
  APJC 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012    
  For   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , product revenue in the APJC segment increased by   3%  . We experienced solid product revenue growth in the commercial and service provider markets and, to a lesser degree, in the public sector market. The growth in product revenue in the service provider market was due primarily to our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 3% in Australia, 34% in India, and 10% in South Korea.  These increases were partially offset by product revenue declines of 5% in China and 7% in Japan, reflecting certain challenges that we faced in these countries during portions of fiscal 2013, most notably in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011    
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , product revenue in the APJC segment increased by   13%  . The increase was led by strong product revenue growth in the service provider market, and to a lesser degree, in the commercial, enterprise and public sector markets. From a country perspective, product revenue increased by 27% in Japan, 17% in China, and 12% in Australia. We experienced a year-over-year product revenue decline of 19% in South Korea, and 4% in India. Our revenue decline in India was due to ongoing business momentum challenges in the public sector customer market. 
    
    48 

       Table of Contents  

   Product Revenue by Groups of Similar Products 
  In addition to the primary view on a geographic basis, we also prepare financial information related to groups of similar products and customer markets for various purposes. Our product categories consist of the following categories (with subcategories in parentheses): Switching (fixed switching, modular switching, and storage); NGN Routing (high-end routers, mid-range and low-end routers, and other NGN Routing products); Service Provider Video (connected devices, video software and solutions, cable access and NDS); Collaboration (unified communications and Cisco TelePresence); Wireless; Data Center; Security; and Other Products. The Other Products category consists primarily of emerging technology products and other networking products.  
  The following table presents revenue for groups of similar products (in millions, except percentages): 

Switching 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Product revenue in our Switching category increased by   1%  , or   $152 million  , as higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches were partially offset by lower sales of modular switches and storage products. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased by 4%, or $366 million, while sales of modular switches decreased by 1%, or approximately $76 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to higher sales of Cisco Nexus Series Switches, partially offset by sales declines in certain of our Cisco Catalyst product families. Sales of modular switches decreased due to lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series Switches, partially offset by higher sales in Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches. Product revenue in the Switching category was also negatively impacted by a 24% decrease in sales of storage products.  
    49 

       Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , product revenue in our Switching category increased by   3%  , or   $412 million  . The increase was primarily due to growth from transitioning products taking place in our Switching product portfolio. The impact of competitive pressures moderated growth, primarily in the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012. Within our Switching product category, higher sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches and storage products were partially offset by lower sales of modular switches. Sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches increased by 11%, or $819 million, while sales of modular switches decreased by 8%, or approximately $468 million. The increase in sales of LAN fixed-configuration switches was primarily due to increased sales of Cisco Catalyst 2960 Series Switches, Cisco Nexus 2000 and 5000 Series Switches, and the Cisco Catalyst 3750 Series Switches, partially offset by decreased sales of Cisco Catalyst 3560 Series Switches. Product revenue in our Switching category was positively impacted by a 12% increase in sales of storage products, primarily stemming from strong growth in the first and fourth quarters of fiscal 2012. Sales of modular switches decreased primarily due to lower sales of Cisco Catalyst 6500 and 4500 Series Switches, partially offset by increased sales of Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches.  
  NGN Routing 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Sales in our NGN Routing product category decreased by   2%  , or   $152 million  , driven by a 3%, or $142 million, decrease in sales of high-end router products and an 8%, or $58 million, decrease in sales of other NGN Routing products. These decreases were partially offset by a 2%, or $47 million, increase in sales of our midrange and low-end router products. Within the high-end router product category, we experienced lower sales of our Cisco CRS-1 and CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products and our legacy high-end router products, partially offset by continued adoption of our Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) products. Higher sales in our midrange and low-end router products were driven by the continued adoption of our Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISR) platform. The decline in sales of other NGN Routing products was due to decreased sales of certain other routing and optical networking products.   
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , product revenue in our NGN Routing product category increased by   2%  , or   $196 million  . The increase in sales of our NGN Routing product category was driven by a 7%, or $332 million, increase in sales of high-end router products, partially offset by a 3%, or $87 million, decline in sales of our midrange and low-end router products. Within the high-end router products category, the increase was driven by higher sales of Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System products and higher sales of the Cisco ASR 9000, 5000, and 1000 family of products. These increases were partially offset by lower sales of Cisco 7600 and 12000 Series Routers. Within the midrange and low-end router products category, the decrease was related to the product transition taking place within our Cisco ISR products, as the sales decline in our older generation products had a greater impact than the growth experienced with our Cisco ISR 1900, ISR 2900, and ISR 3900 router products in this category. Sales of other NGN Routing products decreased by 6%, compared with fiscal 2011, primarily due to decreased sales of other routing and optical networking products.   
  Service Provider Video 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Our Service Provider Video products category grew by   26%  , or   $991 million  , due primarily to the acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013. Higher revenue from our connected devices and higher revenue from our video software and solutions also contributed to the increase. The increase in sales of connected devices products was primarily due to increased sales of cable set-top boxes.  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , sales of Service Provider Video products increased by   10%  , or   $346 million  , due to growth in our service provider customer market from increased sales of set-top boxes worldwide. Sales in connected devices  increased by 19%, or $408 million, sales in video software and solutions increased by 18%, or $39 million, while sales in cable access decreased by 9%, or $100 million.  
  Collaboration 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Our Collaboration product category continues to shift its focus to recurring revenue streams driven by SaaS offerings. Overall, sales of Collaboration products decreased by   6%  , or   $237 million  , primarily due to a decline in sales of Cisco TelePresence Systems and, to a lesser degree, a decline in sales of Unified Communications products. Lower public sector spending in the United States, as well as demand weakness in Europe, were significant drivers of the decline in sales of Cisco TelePresence Systems. We also experienced a decline in sales of Unified Communications products, which was due primarily to lower sales of Unified  
    50 

       Table of Contents  

   Communications infrastructure products as a result of our sales emphasis on shifting towards products with recurring revenue streams. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , sales of Collaboration products increased by   3%  , or   $121 million  . The increase was due to a 5% increase in sales of unified communications products, primarily IP phones and collaborative web-based offerings, partially offset by a 1% decrease in sales of Cisco TelePresence systems. Challenges in both the public sector and demand weakness in Europe, along with our execution challenges related to our sales coverage model, contributed to the decrease in sales of Cisco TelePresence systems in fiscal 2012. 
  Wireless 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Sales of Wireless products increased by   31%  , or   $507 million  . This increase reflects the continued customer adoption of and migration to the unified access architecture of the Cisco Unified Wireless Network, and also reflects increased sales of new products in this category as well as sales of products related to our acquisition of Meraki.  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , sales of Wireless products increased by   19%  , or   $259 million  . These increases reflect the continued customer adoption of our wireless architecture and new product performance.  
  Data Center 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  We experienced strong growth in our Data Center product category, which grew by   60%  , or   $775 million  , with strong sales growth of our Cisco Unified Computing System products across all geographic segments and customer markets. The increase was due in large part to the continued momentum we are experiencing with our products for both data center and cloud environments, as current customers increase their data center build-outs and as new customers deploy these offerings.  
  To the extent our data center business grows and further penetrates the market, we expect that, in comparison to what we experienced during the initial rapid growth of this business, the growth rates for our data center product sales will experience more normal seasonality consistent with the overall server market.  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , sales of Data Center products increased by   86%  , or   $602 million  , due to increased sales of Cisco Unified Computing System products. The increase was due to the momentum we are experiencing with our products for the enterprise and service provider data center and cloud environments, as current customers increase their data center build out, and new customer product purchases.  
  Security 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Sales of Security products were flat as higher sales in high-end firewall products within our network security product portfolio were offset by lower sales of our content security products. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For   fiscal 2012  , as compared with   fiscal 2011  , sales of Security products increased by   13%  , or   $150 million  . These increases were primarily due to growth in our network security products driven by the recent update of our firewall security product portfolio. 
  Other Products 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  We experienced a   34%  , or   $339 million  , decrease in sales of Other Products due in large part to lower sales of our Linksys products, which product line we sold during the third quarter of fiscal 2013. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  The decrease in sales of Other Products for fiscal 2012 was primarily due to lower sales of Flip Video camera products in connection with our decision in fiscal 2011 to exit this consumer product line. 
    51 

       Table of Contents  

   Service Revenue by Segment 
  The following table presents the breakdown of service revenue by segment (in millions, except percentages): 

Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Service revenue experienced solid growth across all of our geographic segments. Worldwide technical support services revenue increased by 6%, and worldwide advanced services, which relate to consulting support services for specific network needs, experienced 16% revenue growth. Technical support service experienced growth across all of our geographic segments, led by growth in our Americas segment. Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with product sales provided an installed base of equipment being serviced which, in concert with new service offerings, were the primary factors driving these increases. We experienced revenue growth in advanced services across all geographic segments, led by growth in the Americas segment. Advanced services revenue growth was driven by solid growth in both transaction and subscription revenues.  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, service revenue experienced double-digit percentage growth across all of our geographic segments. Worldwide technical support services revenue increased by 10%, and worldwide advanced services experienced 20% revenue growth. Technical support services revenue grew across all of our geographic segments, with strong revenue growth in our EMEA and APJC segments.  Renewals and technical support service contract initiations associated with recent product sales have resulted in a new installed base of equipment being serviced, which was the primary driver for these increases. Advanced services revenue also grew across all geographic segments, with particularly strong growth in APJC.  The APJC revenue growth in advanced services was led by strength in the second half of fiscal 2012 and was driven by both subscription growth and transaction growth, which was in part the result of the completion of several large, multiyear projects in this region.   
    
    52 

       Table of Contents  

   Gross Margin 
  The following table presents the gross margin for products and services (in millions, except percentages): 

Product Gross Margin 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2013: 

(1)        Productivity includes overall manufacturing-related costs, shipment volume, and other items not categorized elsewhere. 
  Product gross margin decreased by   1.0    percentage points compared with fiscal 2012.  
  Higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing contributed to our decreased product gross margin percentage in fiscal 2013.  These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin for fiscal 2013 was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of revenue increases for our relatively lower margin Cisco Unified Computing System products. These impacts were offset by continued productivity improvements. The productivity improvements were in large part due to increased benefits from cost savings, particularly in certain of our Switching and NGN Routing categories in which product transitions have been taking place, and were driven by value engineering efforts, favorable component pricing, and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations. Value engineering is the process by which production costs are reduced through component redesign, board configuration, test processes, and transformation processes. 
  Because the preceding factors largely offset each other, the decline in our product gross margin percentage was largely driven by our acquisition of NDS, which resulted in higher amortization expense from purchased intangible assets along with costs resulting from a fair value adjustment to inventory acquired as part of that acquisition. In addition, during fiscal 2013 we incurred charges related to the TiVo patent litigation settlement in the fourth quarter that were included as part of cost of sales. The combined effect of these items was a negative impact to our product gross margin of 1.1 percentage points for fiscal 2013.  
  Our future gross margins could be impacted by our product mix and could be adversely affected by further growth in sales of products that have lower gross margins, such as Cisco Unified Computing System products. Our gross margins may also be impacted by the geographic mix of our revenue and, as was the case in fiscal 2013 and 2012, may be adversely affected by increased sales discounts, rebates, and product pricing attributable to competitive factors. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain, which in turn could negatively affect gross margin. If any of the preceding factors that in the past have negatively impacted our gross margins arise in future periods, our gross margins could continue to decline. 
    53 

       Table of Contents  

   Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  The following table summarizes the key factors that contributed to the change in product gross margin percentage from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012: 

(1)    Beginning in fiscal 2013, we refined our methodology for presenting the items in the preceding table, and accordingly certain reclassifications have been made to fiscal 2012 amounts to conform to the presentation made for the fiscal 2013 amounts. 
  In fiscal 2012, product gross margin decreased by   0.4   percentage points compared with fiscal 2011. The decrease was primarily due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates, and unfavorable product pricing, which were driven by normal market factors and by the geographic mix of product revenue. These factors impacted most of our customer markets and all of our geographic segments. Additionally, our product gross margin for fiscal 2012 was negatively impacted by the shift in the mix of products sold, primarily as a result of revenue increases in our relatively lower margin Cisco Unified Computing System products and increased revenue in other lower margin products. In fiscal 2012, we experienced a positive mix impact from the absence of the lower margin consumer related products due to our exit from the Flip Video camera product line in fiscal 2011. The negative impacts to product gross margin were partially offset by lower restructuring charges, the absence of significant impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets, lower amortization expense in fiscal 2012 and productivity improvements. The productivity improvements were in part due to increased benefits from our value engineering efforts, particularly in certain of our Switching products; favorable component pricing; and continued operational efficiency in manufacturing operations.  
  Service Gross Margin 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Our service gross margin percentage increased slightly by   0.1   percentage points for   fiscal 2013  , as compared with fiscal 2012. Although we experienced higher sales volume from growth in both advanced services and in technical support services, the resulting benefit to gross margin was offset by increased cost impacts such as headcount-related costs, partner delivery costs, and unfavorable mix. The mix impacts were due to our lower gross margin advanced services business contributing a higher proportion of service revenue for fiscal 2013, as compared with fiscal 2012.  
  Our service gross margin normally experiences some fluctuations due to various factors such as the timing of contract initiations in our renewals, our strategic investments in headcount, and the resources we deploy to support the overall service business. Other factors include the mix of service offerings, as the gross margin from our advanced services is typically lower than the gross margin from technical support services. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  Our service gross margin percentage increased by   0.5   percentage points for fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher sales volume for both technical support services and advanced services. The benefit to gross margin of increased volume was partially offset by increased headcount-related and partner delivery costs, and unfavorable mix. The mix impacts were due to our lower gross margin advanced services revenue contributing a higher proportion of service revenue for fiscal 2012, as compared with the prior year. Lower share-based compensation expense in fiscal 2012 as compared with fiscal 2011 also added to the increase in service gross margin.  
  For fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, gross margin from technical support services was flat as the benefits from a 10% increase in revenue combined with lower supply chain costs were offset by higher headcount-related costs. For fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, gross margin in advanced services increased primarily due to a 20% increase in revenue in fiscal 2012. Partially offsetting the volume benefit were higher delivery team costs which were, in part headcount related, and higher partner delivery costs. Our revenue from advanced services may increase to a higher proportion of total service revenue due to our continued focus on providing comprehensive support to our customers  networking devices, applications, and infrastructures.  
    54 

       Table of Contents  

   Gross Margin by Segment 
  The following table presents the total gross margin for each segment (in millions, except percentages): 

(1)      The unallocated corporate items include the effects of amortization and impairments of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, impacts to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, significant litigation settlements (which consisted of $172 million recorded to cost of sales for the TiVo patent litigation settlement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013), and certain other charges. We do not allocate these items to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include such information in measuring the performance of the operating segments.  
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  We experienced a gross margin percentage decrease in our Americas and APJC segments, while our EMEA segment experienced a gross margin percentage increase.  
  The Americas segment experienced a slight gross margin percentage decline due to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, and also due to unfavorable mix impacts, partially offset by productivity improvements.  
  The gross margin percentage increase in our EMEA segment was primarily the result of productivity improvements from lower overall manufacturing costs and, to a lesser degree, favorable mix impacts and higher service gross margin.  Partially offsetting these favorable impacts to gross margin were negative impacts from higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing.   
  The APJC segment gross margin percentage declined due primarily to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, lower service gross margin, and unfavorable mix impacts. Partially offsetting these factors were productivity improvements, driven in large part by lower overall manufacturing costs and higher volume. 
  The gross margin percentage for a particular segment may fluctuate, and period-to-period changes in such percentages may or may not be indicative of a trend for that segment. Our product and service gross margins may be impacted by economic downturns or uncertain economic conditions as well as our movement into new market opportunities, and could decline if any of the factors that impact our gross margins are adversely affected in future periods.  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For fiscal 2012, we experienced a gross margin percentage decline across all of our geographic segments as compared with fiscal 2011.  
  The Americas segment experienced a slight gross margin percentage decline with the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing being substantially offset by higher volume, higher service gross margin, lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs, and favorable mix impacts. Significantly lower revenue from the consumer market resulted in a positive gross margin mix impact to the Americas segment for fiscal 2012. 
  The gross margin percentage decline in our EMEA segment was primarily the result of unfavorable mix impacts; higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing; and lower service gross margin due to increased headcount-related costs. These decreases were partially offset by lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs and increased volume in this segment. 
  The APJC segment experienced the largest gross margin percentage decline of all of our geographic segments due primarily to the impact of higher sales discounts, rebates and unfavorable pricing, lower service gross margin, and unfavorable mix impacts.   These decreases were partially offset by increased volume and lower overall manufacturing and delivery costs.  
    55 

       Table of Contents  

   Factors That May Impact Revenue and Gross Margin 
  Product revenue may continue to be affected by factors, including global economic downturns and related market uncertainty, that have resulted in cautious IT-related capital spending in our enterprise, service provider, public sector, and commercial markets; changes in the geopolitical environment and global economic conditions; competition, including price-focused competitors from Asia, especially from China; new product introductions; sales cycles and product implementation cycles; changes in the mix of our customers between service provider and enterprise markets; changes in the mix of direct sales and indirect sales; variations in sales channels; and final acceptance criteria of the product, system, or solution as specified by the customer. Sales to the service provider market have been and may be in the future characterized by large and sporadic purchases, especially relating to our router sales and sales of certain products within our Collaboration and Data Center product categories. In addition, service provider customers typically have longer implementation cycles; require a broader range of services, including network design services; and often have acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition. Certain of our customers in certain emerging countries also tend to make large and sporadic purchases, and the revenue related to these transactions may similarly be affected by the timing of revenue recognition. As we focus on new market opportunities, customers may require greater levels of financing arrangements, service, and support, especially in certain emerging countries, which in turn may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition. To improve customer satisfaction, we continue to focus on managing our manufacturing lead-time performance, which may result in corresponding reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter revenue and operating results. 
  Product revenue may also be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for our products, especially with respect to telecommunications service providers and Internet businesses, whether or not driven by any slowdown in capital expenditures in the service provider market; price and product competition in the communications and information technology industry; introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and products; adoption of new networking standards; and financial difficulties experienced by our customers. We may, from time to time, experience manufacturing issues that create a delay in our suppliers  ability to provide specific components, resulting in delayed shipments. To the extent that manufacturing issues and any related component shortages result in delayed shipments in the future, and particularly in periods when we and our suppliers are operating at higher levels of capacity, it is possible that revenue for a quarter could be adversely affected if such matters are not remediated within the same quarter. For additional factors that may impact product revenue, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.   
  Our distributors participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs. Increased sales to our distributors generally result in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products and, to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our customers. We recognize revenue for sales to our distributors generally based on a sell-through method using information provided by them, and we maintain estimated accruals and allowances for all cooperative marketing and other programs. 
  Product gross margin may be adversely affected in the future by changes in the mix of products sold, including periods of increased growth of some of our lower margin products; introduction of new products, including products with price-performance advantages, and new business models for our offerings such as XaaS; our ability to reduce production costs; entry into new markets, including markets with different pricing structures and cost structures, as a result of internal development or through acquisitions; changes in distribution channels; price competition, including competitors from Asia, especially those from China; changes in geographic mix of our product revenue; the timing of revenue recognition and revenue deferrals; sales discounts; increases in material or labor costs, including share-based compensation expense; excess inventory and obsolescence charges; warranty costs; changes in shipment volume; loss of cost savings due to changes in component pricing; effects of value engineering; inventory holding charges; and the extent to which we successfully execute on our strategy and operating plans. Additionally, our manufacturing-related costs may be negatively impacted by constraints in our supply chain. Service gross margin may be impacted by various factors such as the change in mix between technical support services and advanced services; the timing of technical support service contract initiations and renewals; share-based compensation expense; and the timing of our strategic investments in headcount and resources to support this business. 
    
    56 

       Table of Contents  

   Research and Development ( R D ), Sales and Marketing, and General and Administrative ( G A ) Expenses 
  R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses are summarized in the following table (in millions, except percentages): 

R D Expenses 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  The increase in R D expenses for   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , was primarily due to higher headcount-related expenses attributable in large part to our acquisitions. Partially offsetting these costs was lower share-based compensation expense. For further explanation of the year-over-year decrease in share-based compensation expense, see  Share-Based Compensation Expense  below.   
  We continue to invest in R D in order to bring a broad range of products to market in a timely fashion. If we believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner with internally developed products, we may purchase or license technology from other businesses, or we may partner with or acquire businesses as an alternative to internal R D. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  The decrease in R D expenses for fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, was primarily due to lower headcount-related expenses resulting from our restructuring actions initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 and lower share-based compensation expense. Additionally, R D expenses declined due to lower acquisition-related expenses, which were driven by the absence in fiscal 2012 of certain compensation payments that were paid in the prior year.  
    
  Sales and Marketing Expenses 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  For   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , sales and marketing expenses decreased by   $109 million  , primarily due to lower share-based compensation expense and, to a lesser degree, lower discretionary spending and contracted services. These items were partially offset by higher headcount-related expense resulting largely from our acquisitions. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  For fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, sales and marketing expenses decreased by $165 million. Marketing expenses decreased by $204 million, which were partially offset by an increase of $39 million in sales expenses. The decrease in marketing expenses for the period was due to lower advertisement expenses, lower headcount-related expenses, and lower share-based compensation expense. The increase in sales expenses was due primarily to higher project-related services, partially offset by lower headcount-related expenses and lower share-based compensation expense. The decline in headcount-related expenses for both sales and marketing was in part attributable to our restructuring actions initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. 
    
  G A Expenses 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  G A expenses decreased in   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , primarily due to the absence in the current year of $202 million of impairment charges on real estate held for sale recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. Lower share-based compensation expense in fiscal 2013 and a recovery in the market value of property held for sale recorded during fiscal 2013 also contributed to the decrease.  These decreases were partially offset by higher headcount-related expenses   resulting in part from our acquisitions   and also by higher corporate-level expenses. Corporate-level expenses, which tend to vary from period to period,  
    57 

       Table of Contents  

   included operational infrastructure activities such as IT project implementations, which included investments in our global data center infrastructure, and investments related to operational and financial systems. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  G A expenses increased in fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, primarily due to a net increase of approximately $300 million in real estate charges, primarily for impairments on real estate held for sale, followed by other increased corporate-level expenses. The increase in real estate charges in fiscal 2012 was primarily due to charges of $202 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012.  These increased corporate-level expenses, which tend to vary from period to period, include increases related to our operational infrastructure such as real estate; IT project implementations, which include further investments in our global data center infrastructure, and investments related to operational and financial systems. 
  Partially offsetting these increases were lower share-based compensation expense, and lower headcount-related expenses due to the restructuring actions initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.    
  Effect of Foreign Currency 
  In fiscal 2013, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased the combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by   $227 million  , or approximately   1.3%  , compared with fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2012, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, increased the combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by   $90 million  , or approximately   0.5%  , compared with fiscal 2011.   
  Headcount 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  Our headcount increased by 8,410 employees in   fiscal 2013  . The increase was attributable to the headcount from acquisitions, the largest of which was NDS, as well as targeted hiring in engineering and services. 
  In August 2013, we announced that we are rebalancing our resources with a workforce reduction plan that will impact approximately 4,000 employees or 5% of our global workforce. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  Our headcount decreased by 5,186 employees in fiscal 2012. The decrease was attributable to headcount reductions from the completion of the sale of our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations and from our restructuring actions initiated in July 2011. Partially offsetting these declines in headcount were headcount increases due to the growth of our service business and targeted hiring in engineering, which includes the hiring of recent university graduates.   
  Share-Based Compensation Expense 
  The following table presents share-based compensation expense (in millions): 

The year-over-year decrease in share-based compensation expense for   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , was due primarily to a decrease in the aggregate value of share-based awards granted in recent periods, higher forfeiture credits in fiscal 2013, and the effect of stock options awards from prior years becoming fully amortized and replaced with restricted stock units with a lower aggregate value. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The decrease in share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, was due primarily to a decrease in the aggregate value of share-based awards granted in recent periods, the timing of the annual grants to employees in fiscal 2012, and stock options awards from prior years becoming fully amortized and replaced with restricted stock units with a lower aggregate value.  
    58 

       Table of Contents  

   Amortization of Purchased Intangible Assets 
  The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets included in operating expenses (in millions):    

  The increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets for   fiscal 2013  , compared with   fiscal 2012  , was primarily due to amortization of purchased intangible assets from our acquisition of NDS at the beginning of fiscal 2013 and from our other fiscal 2013 acquisitions, partially offset by certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized during fiscal 2013. The decrease in amortization of purchased intangible assets for fiscal 2012, compared with fiscal 2011, was primarily due to the absence of significant impairment charges during fiscal 2012 and also due to certain purchased intangible assets having become fully amortized or impaired in fiscal 2011. The impairment charges in fiscal 2011 were primarily due to declines in estimated fair value as a result of reductions in expected future cash flows associated with certain products from our then consumer product lines. For additional information regarding purchased intangible assets, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The fair value of acquired technology and patents, as well as acquired technology under development, is determined at acquisition date primarily using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations are typically derived from a weighted-average cost of capital analysis and then adjusted to reflect risks inherent in the development lifecycle as appropriate. We consider the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions to be standard within the high-technology communications industry, and the applicable discount rates represent the rates that market participants would use for valuation of such intangible assets.  
  Restructuring and Other Charges 
  Fiscal 2011 Plans 
  In connection with the Fiscal 2011 Plans (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), we incurred within operating expenses net restructuring and other charges of approximately   $105 million  ,   $304 million  , and   $799 million   for fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.  
    
  August Fiscal 2014 Plan 
  In August 2013, we announced a workforce reduction plan. We are rebalancing our resources with a workforce reduction plan that will impact approximately 4,000 employees or 5% of our global workforce. We expect to take action under this plan beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We currently estimate that we will recognize pretax charges to our financial results in an amount not expected to exceed $550 million consisting of severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.    
  Operating Income 
  The following table presents our operating income and our operating income as a percentage of revenue (in millions, except percentages): 

In fiscal 2013 our results reflect solid execution on delivering profitable growth, as we grew operating income faster than revenue.  In   fiscal 2013  , as compared with   fiscal 2012  , operating income increased by   11%  , and as a percentage of revenue operating income increased by   1.1   percentage points. The increases resulted from the following: revenue growth of 6%; continuing focus on expense management, which resulted in lower sales and marketing and G A expenses as a percentage of revenue; and lower restructuring and other charges.  
  In fiscal 2012, as compared with fiscal 2011, operating income increased by 31%, as a percentage of revenue, operating income increased by 4.1 percentage points. The increase resulted from: revenue growth of 7%; effective expense management that resulted in lower total R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses as a percentage of revenue; lower amortization of purchased intangible assets; lower restructuring and other charges; and lower share-based compensation expense.  
    
    59 

       Table of Contents  

   Interest and Other Income, Net 
  Interest Income (Expense), Net     The following table summarizes interest income and interest expense (in millions): 

Interest income increased slightly in both   fiscal 2013   and fiscal 2012 as compared with the respective prior fiscal years. The slight increases were primarily due to increased interest income earned on financing receivables, partially offset by lower interest income from our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and fixed income investments as a result of lower average interest rates. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2013 as compared with fiscal 2012 was attributable to the favorable impact of interest rate swaps and lower expense on our floating-rate notes as the benchmark London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) decreased. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 was attributable to the effect of lower average interest rates on our debt. 
  Other Income (Loss), Net       The components of other income, net, are summarized as follows (in millions): 

Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  The decrease in net gains on available-for-sale investments in   fiscal 2013   compared with   fiscal 2012   was attributable to lower gains on fixed income and publicly traded equity securities in   fiscal 2013   as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the unrealized gains and losses on investments. For   fiscal 2013   as compared with   fiscal 2012  , the change in net losses on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to higher realized gains from various private investments, partially offset by an increase of $23 million in our proportional share of losses from our VCE joint venture. The change in other gains (losses), net for   fiscal 2013   as compared with   fiscal 2012  , was primarily due to an increase in donations and less favorable foreign exchange impacts in   fiscal 2013  .  
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  The decrease in total net gains on available-for-sale investments in fiscal 2012 compared with fiscal 2011 was attributable to lower gains on fixed income and publicly traded equity securities in fiscal 2012 as a result of market conditions and the timing of sales of these securities. For fiscal 2012 as compared with fiscal 2011, the change in net (losses) gains on investments in privately held companies was primarily due to equity method losses related to our proportional share of losses from our VCE joint venture increasing by $84 million for fiscal 2012.  The change in other gains (losses), net for fiscal 2012 as compared with fiscal 2011, was primarily due to more favorable foreign exchange impacts in fiscal 2012. 
    60 

       Table of Contents  

   Provision for Income Taxes  
  Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates, higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates, and expiration of or lapses in tax incentives. Our provision for income taxes does not include provisions for U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to reinvest indefinitely in our foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Further, as a result of certain of our ongoing employment and capital investment actions and commitments, our income in certain countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from tax. Our failure to meet these commitments could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. 
  Fiscal 2013 Compared with Fiscal 2012 
  The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of   11.1%   for   fiscal 2013  , compared with   20.8%   for   fiscal 2012  . The net   9.7   percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to a net tax benefit of $794 million, or 7.1 percentage points, due to a tax settlement with the IRS and an increase in tax benefits of $144 million, or 1.2 percentage points, due to the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. federal R D tax credit in fiscal 2013. 
  For a full reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and for further explanation of our provision for income taxes, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
  The provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of   20.8%   for fiscal 2012, compared with   17.1%   for fiscal 2011. The net   3.7   percentage point increase in the effective tax rate between fiscal years was primarily attributable to a smaller proportion of net income which was subject to foreign income tax rates that are lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% and the expiration of the U.S. federal R D tax credit on December 31, 2011, partially offset by other items including a reduction in state taxes. 

61 

       Table of Contents  

   LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our balance sheet, our capital allocation strategy including stock repurchase program and dividends, our contractual obligations, and certain other commitments and activities on our liquidity and capital resources. 
  Balance Sheet and Cash Flows 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments     The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents and investments (in millions): 

The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily the result of cash provided by operating activities of   $12.9 billion  , an increase from   $11.5 billion   provided for fiscal 2012, and issuance of common stock of   $3.3 billion   pursuant to employee stock incentive plans. These sources of cash were partially offset by cash paid for acquisitions of   $6.8 billion  , cash dividends paid of   $3.3 billion  , the repurchase of common stock of   $2.8 billion   under the stock repurchase program, and capital expenditures of   $1.2 billion  .  The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2013 as compared with fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of an increase in net income. 
  Our total in cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries was   $40.4 billion   and   $42.5 billion   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and investments held outside the United States were to be distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. The balance available in the United States as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   was   $10.2 billion   and   $6.2 billion  , respectively. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Sourcefire, which will reduce our current balance of cash and cash equivalents and investments available in the United States by approximately   $2.7 billion   upon completion of the acquisition.  See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. We classify our investments as short-term investments based on their nature and their availability for use in current operations. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong, with our cash equivalents and our fixed income investment portfolio consisting primarily of high quality investment-grade securities. We believe that our strong cash and cash equivalents and investments position allows us to use our cash resources for strategic investments to gain access to new technologies, for acquisitions, for customer financing activities, for working capital needs, and for the repurchase of shares of common stock and payment of dividends as discussed below. 
  Free Cash Flow and Capital Allocation        In August 2012, as part of our capital allocation strategy, we announced our intent to return a minimum of 50% of our free cash flow annually to our shareholders through cash dividends and repurchases of common stock, which objective we accomplished in fiscal 2013. 
  We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less cash used to acquire property and equipment. The following table reconciles our net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow (in millions): 

We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, the rate at which products are shipped during the quarter (which we refer to as shipment linearity), the timing and collection of accounts receivable and financing receivables, inventory and supply chain management, deferred revenue, excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation, and the timing and amount of tax and other payments. For additional discussion, see  Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors  in this report. 
    62 

       Table of Contents  

   We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors because of our intent to return a stated percentage of free cash flow to shareholders in the form of dividends and stock repurchases.  We further regard free cash flow as a useful measure because it reflects cash that can be used to, among other things, invest in our business, make strategic acquisitions, repurchase common stock, and pay dividends on our common stock, after deducting capital investments. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance and liquidity is that the free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period.  In addition, we have other required uses of cash, including repaying the principal of our outstanding indebtedness.  Free cash flow is not a measure calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and should not be regarded in isolation or as an alternative for net income provided by operating activities or any other measure calculated in accordance with such principles, and other companies may calculate free cash flow in a different manner than we do.  
  The following table summarizes the dividends paid and stock repurchases (in millions, except per-share amounts): 

On September 3, 2013, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.17 per common share to be paid on October 23, 2013 to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 3, 2013. 
  Accounts Receivable, Net     The following table summarizes our accounts receivable, net (in millions), and DSO: 

Our accounts receivable net, as of   July 27, 2013   increased by approximately   25%   compared with the end of fiscal 2012. Our DSO as of   July 27, 2013   was higher by   6   days compared with the end of fiscal 2012, primarily due to the timing of product shipments, as a higher proportion of shipments were made in the latter part of the fourth quarter in fiscal 2013. 
  Inventory Supply Chain     The following table summarizes our inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers (in millions, except annualized inventory turns): 

Inventory as of   July 27, 2013   decreased by   11%   from our inventory balance at the end of fiscal 2012, and for the same period purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers increased by approximately   4%  . On a combined basis, inventories and purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers were flat compared with the end of fiscal 2012.  
  The inventory decrease was primarily due to lower levels of manufactured finished goods, which in turn was due in part to inventory sold as part of the sale of our Linksys product line. The increase in purchase commitments in fiscal 2013, as compared with fiscal 2012, was driven primarily by new product introductions and an increase in customer demand. We believe our inventory and purchase commitments levels are in line with our current demand forecasts. 
  Our finished goods consist of distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales and manufactured finished goods. Distributor inventory and deferred cost of sales are related to unrecognized revenue on shipments to distributors and retail partners as well as shipments to customers. Manufactured finished goods consist primarily of build-to-order and build-to-stock products. 
  We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by us or that establish the parameters defining our requirements and our commitment to securing manufacturing capacity. A significant portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule,  
    63 

       Table of Contents  

   and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Our purchase commitments are for short-term product manufacturing requirements as well as for commitments to suppliers to secure manufacturing capacity. 
  Inventory and supply chain management remain areas of focus as we balance the need to maintain supply chain flexibility to help ensure competitive lead times with the risk of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. We believe the amount of our inventory and purchase commitments is appropriate for our revenue levels. 
  Financing Receivables and Guarantees    We measure our net balance sheet exposure position related to our financing receivables and financing guarantees by reducing the total of gross financing receivables and financing guarantees by the associated allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue. As of   July 27, 2013  , our net balance sheet exposure position related to financing receivables and financing guarantees was as follows (in millions): 

Financing Receivables       Gross financing receivables less unearned income increased by   9%   compared with the end of fiscal 2012. The change was primarily due to a   10%   increase in lease receivables and an   18%   increase in financed service contracts and other, partially reduced by an   8%   decline in loan receivables. We provide financing to certain end-user customers and channel partners to enable sales of our products, services, and networking solutions. These financing arrangements include leases, financed service contracts, and loans. Arrangements related to leases are generally collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Lease receivables include sales-type and direct-financing leases. We also provide certain qualified customers financing for long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and advanced services. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our products and services but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. We expect to continue to expand the use of our financing programs in the near term. 
  Financing Guarantees       In the normal course of business, third parties may provide financing arrangements to our customers and channel partners under financing programs. The financing arrangements to customers provided by third parties are related to leases and loans and typically have terms of up to three years. In some cases, we provide guarantees to third parties for these lease and loan arrangements. The financing arrangements to channel partners consist of revolving short-term financing provided by third parties, generally with payment terms ranging from 60 to 90 days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of our receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and we receive payments for the receivables from the third party based on our standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and in some cases, we guarantee a portion of these arrangements. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. Historically, our payments under these arrangements have been immaterial. Where we provide a guarantee, we defer the revenue associated with the channel partner and end-user financing arrangement in accordance with revenue recognition policies, or we record a liability for the fair value of the guarantees. In either case, the deferred revenue is recognized as revenue when the guarantee is removed.  
  Deferred Revenue Related to Financing Receivables and Guarantees      The majority of the deferred revenue in the preceding table is related to financed service contracts. The majority of the revenue related to financed service contracts, which primarily relates to technical support services, is deferred as the revenue related to financed service contracts is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed. A portion of the revenue related to lease and loan receivables is also deferred and included in deferred product revenue based on revenue recognition criteria not currently having been met. 
    64 

       Table of Contents  

   Borrowings 
  Senior Notes        The following table summarizes the principal amount of our senior notes (in millions): 

Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes, each of which is redeemable by us at any time, subject to a make-whole premium. Interest is payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. We were in compliance with all debt covenants as of   July 27, 2013  . 
  Other Debt   Other debt includes secured borrowings associated with customer financing arrangements, notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and notes related to our investment in Insieme Networks, Inc. ( Insieme ). The amount of borrowings outstanding under these arrangements was $31 million     and $41 million as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. 
  Commercial Paper   In fiscal 2011, we established a short-term debt financing program of up to $3.0 billion through the issuance of commercial paper notes. As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   we had no commercial paper outstanding under this program. 
  Credit Facility   On February 17, 2012, we terminated our then-existing credit facility and entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a $3.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on February 17, 2017. Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50%, Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time, or one-month LIBOR plus 1.00% or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on our senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Financial Services, LLC and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires that we comply with certain covenants, including that we maintain an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of July 27, 2013, we were in compliance with the required interest coverage ratio and the other covenants, and we had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. 
  We may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional $2.0 billion and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility up to February 17, 2019.  
  Deferred Revenue     The following table presents the breakdown of deferred revenue (in millions): 

The increase in deferred service revenue in fiscal 2013 reflects the impact of new contract initiations and renewals, partially reduced by the ongoing amortization of deferred service revenue. The increase in deferred product revenue was primarily due to increased deferrals related to subscription revenue arrangements. 
    65 

       Table of Contents  

   Contractual Obligations 
  The impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with the factors that impact our cash flows from operations discussed previously. In addition, we plan for and measure our liquidity and capital resources through an annual budgeting process. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at   July 27, 2013   (in millions):  

Operating Leases    For more information on our operating leases, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers     We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. A significant portion of our reported estimated purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. We record a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of our excess and obsolete inventory. See further discussion in  Inventory Supply Chain.  As of   July 27, 2013  , the liability for these purchase commitments was   $172 million   and is recorded in other current liabilities and is not included in the preceding table. 
  Other Purchase Obligations     Other purchase obligations represent an estimate of all contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business, other than operating leases and commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers, for which we have not received the goods or services.  Purchase orders are not included in the preceding table as they typically represent our authorization to purchase rather than binding contractual purchase obligations. 
  Long-Term Debt     The amount of long-term debt in the preceding table represents the principal amount of the respective debt instruments. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Other Long-Term Liabilities     Other long-term liabilities primarily include noncurrent income taxes payable, accrued liabilities for deferred compensation, noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, and certain other long-term liabilities. Due to the uncertainty in the timing of future payments, our noncurrent income taxes payable of approximately   $1,748 million    and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities of   $399 million   were presented as one aggregated amount in the total column on a separate line in the preceding table. Noncurrent income taxes payable include uncertain tax positions (see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
  Other Commitments 
  In connection with our business combinations and asset purchases, we have agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or continued employment with us of certain employees of acquired entities. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  We also have certain funding commitments primarily related to our investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were   $263 million   as of   July 27, 2013  , compared with   $120 million   as of   July 28, 2012  . 
  Insieme Networks, Inc.      In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we made an investment in Insieme, an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market. As set forth in the agreement between Cisco and Insieme, this investment includes   $100 million   of funding and a license to certain of our technology. In addition, pursuant to a November 2012 amendment to the agreement between Cisco and Insieme, we agreed to invest an additional   $35 million   in Insieme upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. As of   July 27, 2013  , we owned approximately   84%   of Insieme as a result of these investments and have consolidated the results of Insieme in our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    66 

       Table of Contents  

   In connection with this investment, we have entered into a put/call option agreement that provides us with the right to purchase the remaining interests in Insieme.  In addition, the noncontrolling interest holders can require us to purchase their shares upon the occurrence of certain events.  If we acquire the remaining interests of Insieme, the noncontrolling interest holders are eligible to receive two milestone payments, which will be determined using agreed-upon formulas based on revenue for certain of Insieme s products. We will begin recognizing the amounts due under the milestone payments when it is determined that such payments are probable of being earned, which may occur in the first half of fiscal 2014.  When such a determination is made, the milestone payments will then be recorded as compensation expense by us based on an estimate of the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned, pursuant to a vesting schedule. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned and the continued vesting will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense. The maximum amount that could be recorded as compensation expense by us is approximately   $863 million  . This amount was increased from a previous maximum of $750 million as a result of the November 2012 amendment, as the parties recognized that higher staffing levels may be necessary to perform additional product development. The milestone payments, if earned, are expected to be paid primarily during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017.  
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We consider our investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities to be off-balance sheet arrangements. In the ordinary course of business, we have investments in privately held companies and provide financing to certain customers. These privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. We evaluate on an ongoing basis our investments in these privately held companies and customer financings, and we have determined that as of   July 27, 2013   there were no material unconsolidated variable interest entities. 
  VCE is a joint venture that we formed in fiscal 2010 with EMC Corporation ( EMC ), with investments from VMware, Inc. ( VMware ) and Intel Corporation. VCE helps organizations leverage best-in-class technologies and disciplines from Cisco, EMC, and VMware to enable the transformation to cloud computing.  As of   July 27, 2013  , our cumulative gross investment in VCE was approximately   $507 million  , inclusive of accrued interest, and our ownership percentage was approximately   35%  . During fiscal 2013, we invested approximately   $93 million   in VCE.  We account for our investment in VCE under the equity method, and our portion of VCE s net loss is recognized in other income (loss), net.  As of   July 27, 2013  , we have recorded cumulative losses since inceptions from VCE of   $422 million  . Our carrying value in VCE as of   July 27, 2013   was   $85 million  . Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, we expect that we will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses proportionate with our share ownership. 
  From time to time, EMC and Cisco may enter into guarantee agreements on behalf of VCE to indemnify third parties, such as customers, for monetary damages. Such guarantees were not material as of   July 27, 2013  . 
  On an ongoing basis, we reassess our investments in privately held companies and customer financings to determine if they are variable interest entities and if we would be regarded as the primary beneficiary pursuant to the applicable accounting guidance. As a result of this ongoing assessment, we may be required to make additional disclosures or consolidate these entities. Because we may not control these entities, we may not have the ability to influence these events. 
  We provide financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements extended to our channel partners and end-user customers. We could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners or end-user customers. See the previous discussion of these financing guarantees under  Financing Receivables and Guarantees.  
  Securities Lending 
  We periodically engage in securities lending activities with certain of our available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis. The average daily balance of securities lending for fiscal 2013 and 2012 was   $0.7 billion   and   $0.5 billion  , respectively. We require collateral equal to at least 102% of the fair market value of the loaned security and that the collateral be in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. We engage in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify us against collateral losses. As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , we had no outstanding securities lending transactions. We believe these arrangements do not present a material risk or impact to our liquidity requirements.  
  Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements 
  Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and committed credit lines will satisfy, through at least the next 12 months, our liquidity requirements, both in total and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, pending acquisitions, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, future customer financings, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. There are no other transactions, arrangements, or relationships with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect the liquidity and the availability of, as well as our requirements for capital resources.   
    67 

       Table of Contents  

                  Item 7A. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Our financial position is exposed to a variety of risks, including interest rate risk, equity price risk, and foreign currency exchange risk.   
  Interest Rate Risk 
  Fixed Income Securities    We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. Our primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. At any time, a sharp rise in market interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. Conversely, declines in interest rates, including the impact from lower credit spreads, could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. We may utilize derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments to achieve our investment objectives. We had no outstanding hedging instruments for our fixed income securities as of   July 27, 2013  . Our fixed income investments are held for purposes other than trading. Our fixed income investments are not leveraged as of   July 27, 2013  . We monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. As of   July 27, 2013  , 77% of our fixed income securities balance consisted of U.S. government and U.S. government agency securities. We believe the overall credit quality of our portfolio is strong. 
  The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of our fixed income securities, including the hedging effects when applicable, as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. The market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( BPS ), plus 100 BPS, and plus 150 BPS. Due to the low interest rate environment at the end of each of   fiscal 2013   and   fiscal 2012  , we did not believe a parallel shift of minus 100 BPS or minus 150 BPS was relevant. The hypothetical fair values as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   are as follows (in millions): 

Financing Receivables    As of   July 27, 2013  , our financing receivables had a carrying value of   $7.9 billion  , compared to $7.2 billion as of   July 28, 2012  .  As of   July 27, 2013  , a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of our financing receivables by a decrease or increase of approximately $0.1 billion, respectively.  
  Debt       As of   July 27, 2013  , we had $16.0 billion in principal amount of senior notes outstanding, which consisted of $1.25 billion floating-rate notes and $14.75 billion fixed-rate notes. The carrying amount of the senior notes was   $16.2 billion  , and the related fair value was   $17.6 billion  , which fair value is based on market prices. As of   July 27, 2013  , a hypothetical 50 BPS increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt, excluding the $5.25 billion of hedged debt, by a decrease or increase of $0.4 billion, respectively. However, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt, which is not hedged. 
    68 

       Table of Contents  

   Equity Price Risk 
  The fair value of our equity investments in publicly traded companies is subject to market price volatility. We may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify our overall investment portfolio. Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most closely match the Standard   Poor s 500 Index or NASDAQ Composite Index. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. To manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, we may enter into equity derivatives designated as hedging instruments. 
  Publicly Traded Equity Securities    The following tables present the hypothetical fair values of publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio, excluding hedged equity securities, if any. Potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 20%, and 30% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. The hypothetical fair values as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   are as follows (in millions): 

Investments in Privately Held Companies    We have also invested in privately held companies. These investments are recorded in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and are accounted for using primarily either the cost or the equity method. As of   July 27, 2013  , the total carrying amount of our investments in privately held companies was   $833 million  , compared with   $858 million   at   July 28, 2012  . Some of the privately held companies in which we invested are in the startup or development stages. These investments are inherently risky because the markets for the technologies or products these companies are developing are typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire investment in these companies. Our evaluation of investments in privately held companies is based on the fundamentals of the businesses invested in, including, among other factors, the nature of their technologies and potential for financial return.  
    69 

       Table of Contents  

   Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 
  Our foreign exchange forward and option contracts outstanding at fiscal year-end are summarized in U.S. dollar equivalents as follows (in millions): 

We conduct business globally in numerous currencies. The direct effect of foreign currency fluctuations on revenue has not been material because our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. However, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could have an indirect effect on our revenue to the extent it raises the cost of our products to non-U.S. customers and thereby reduces demand. A weaker U.S. dollar could have the opposite effect. However, the precise indirect effect of currency fluctuations is difficult to measure or predict because our sales are influenced by many factors in addition to the impact of such currency fluctuations. 
  Approximately 70% of our operating expenses are U.S.-dollar denominated. In fiscal 2013, foreign currency fluctuations, net of hedging, decreased our combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by   $227 million  , or approximately   1.3%  , compared with fiscal 2012, and in fiscal 2012, they increased our combined R D, sales and marketing, and G A expenses by   $90 million  , or approximately   0.5%   as compared with fiscal 2011. To reduce variability in operating expenses and service cost of sales caused by non-U.S.-dollar denominated operating expenses and costs, we hedge certain forecasted foreign currency transactions with currency options and forward contracts. These hedging programs are not designed to provide foreign currency protection over long time horizons. In designing a specific hedging approach, we consider several factors, including offsetting exposures, significance of exposures, costs associated with entering into a particular hedge instrument, and potential effectiveness of the hedge. The gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts mitigate the effect of currency movements on our operating expenses and service cost of sales. 
  We also enter into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on receivables and payables that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities. The market risks associated with these foreign currency receivables, investments, and payables relate primarily to variances from our forecasted foreign currency transactions and balances. Our forward and option contracts generally have the following maturities: 

Maturities 
      Forward and option contracts forecasted transactions related to operating expenses and service cost of sales 
      
    Up to 18 months 
      Forward contracts current assets and liabilities 
      
    Up to 3 months 
      Forward contracts net investments in foreign subsidiaries 
      
    Up to 6 months 
      Forward contracts long-term customer financings 
      
    Up to 2 years 

We do not enter into foreign exchange forward or option contracts for trading purposes. 
    
    70 

       Table of Contents  

                  Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  
                     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    72 
       Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
    73 
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    74 
       Consolidated Statements of Operations  
    75 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    76 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    77 
       Consolidated Statements of Equity  
    78 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    79 
       Note 1: Basis of Presentation  
    79 
       Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
    79 
       Note 3: Business Combinations  
    86 
       Note 4: Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets  
    88 
       Note 5: Restructuring and Other Charges  
    91 
       Note 6: Balance Sheet Details  
    92 
       Note 7: Financing Receivables and Guarantees  
    93 
       Note 8: Investments  
    97 
       Note 9: Fair Value  
    99 
       Note 10: Borrowings  
    101 
       Note 11: Derivative Instruments  
    103 
       Note 12: Commitments and Contingencies  
    106 
       Note 13: Shareholders  Equity  
    110 
       Note 14: Employee Benefit Plans  
    111 
       Note 15: Income Taxes  
    116 
       Note 16: Segment Information and Major Customers  
    119 
       Note 17: Net Income per Share  
    120 
       Supplementary Financial Data  
    121 

71 

       Table of Contents  

   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.: 
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive income, of cash flows and of equity listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   July 27, 2013   in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   July 27, 2013  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  San Jose, California 
  September 10, 2013    
    72 

       Table of Contents  

   Reports of Management 
    
  Statement of Management s Responsibility 
  Cisco s management has always assumed full accountability for maintaining compliance with our established financial accounting policies and for reporting our results with objectivity and the highest degree of integrity. It is critical for investors and other users of the Consolidated Financial Statements to have confidence that the financial information that we provide is timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Management is responsible for the fair presentation of Cisco s Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy. 
  Management, with oversight by Cisco s Board of Directors, has established and maintains a strong ethical climate so that our affairs are conducted to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct. Management also has established an effective system of internal controls. Cisco s policies and practices reflect corporate governance initiatives that are compliant with the listing requirements of NASDAQ and the corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
  We are committed to enhancing shareholder value and fully understand and embrace our fiduciary oversight responsibilities. We are dedicated to ensuring that our high standards of financial accounting and reporting, as well as our underlying system of internal controls, are maintained. Our culture demands integrity and we have the highest confidence in our processes, our internal controls and our people, who are objective in their responsibilities and who operate under the highest level of ethical standards.  
    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for Cisco. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Management (with the participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer) conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that Cisco s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   July 27, 2013  . PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of Cisco s internal control over financial reporting and has issued a report on Cisco s internal control over financial reporting, which is included in their report on the preceding page. 
    
                   /S/    J  OHN   T  .   C  HAMBERS 
      
    /S/    F  RANK   A  .   C  ALDERONI 

John T. Chambers 
      
    Frank A. Calderoni 
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      September 10, 2013 
      
    September 10, 2013 

73 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (in millions, except par value) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    74 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Statements of Operations 
  (in millions, except per-share amounts) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    75 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  (in millions) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    76 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    77 

       Table of Contents  

   Consolidated Statements of Equity 
  (in millions, except per-share amounts)    

Supplemental Information 
  In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to   $82 billion   of common stock under this program with no termination date. The stock repurchases since the inception of this program and the related impacts on Cisco shareholders  equity are summarized in the following table (in millions): 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    78 

       Table of Contents  

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    
             1. 
    Basis of Presentation 
     The fiscal year for Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company  or  Cisco ) is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in July. Fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012, and fiscal 2011 are each 52-week fiscal years. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Cisco and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis in the following three geographic segments: the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC).  
  The Company consolidates its investments in a venture fund managed by SOFTBANK Corp. and its affiliates ( SOFTBANK )  and Insieme Networks, Inc. ( Insieme ) as these are variable interest entities and the Company is the primary beneficiary. The noncontrolling interests attributed to SOFTBANK are presented as a separate component from the Company s equity in the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. SOFTBANK s share of the earnings in the venture fund and the loss attributable to the noncontrolling interests in Insieme are not presented separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as these amounts are not material for any of the fiscal periods presented.    
  Certain reclassifications have been made to the amounts for prior years in order to conform to the current year s presentation.  The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date that the financial statements were issued.  
    
             2. 
    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
     (a) Cash and Cash Equivalents     The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with various financial institutions. 
  (b) Available-for-Sale Investments     The Company classifies its investments in both fixed income securities and publicly traded equity securities as available-for-sale investments. Fixed income securities primarily consist of U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, non-U.S. government and agency securities, and corporate debt securities. These available-for-sale investments are primarily held in the custody of a major financial institution. A specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of fixed income and public equity securities sold. These investments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on these investments, to the extent the investments are unhedged, are included as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax. The Company classifies its investments as current based on the nature of the investments and their availability for use in current operations. 
  (c) Other-than-Temporary Impairments on Investments      When the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost, it is deemed impaired, and the Company will assess whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) the Company has the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. If impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (i) or (ii) described earlier, the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the debt security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses (defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security) will be recognized in earnings, and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income (OCI). 
  The Company recognizes an impairment charge on publicly traded equity securities when a decline in  the fair value of a security below the respective cost basis is judged to be other than temporary. The Company considers various factors in determining whether a decline in the fair value of these investments is other than temporary, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value of the security has been less than the Company s cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 
  Investments in privately held companies are included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are primarily accounted for using either the cost or equity method. The Company monitors these investments for impairments and makes reductions in carrying values if the Company determines that an impairment charge is required based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of these companies. 
  (d) Inventories     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost, on a first-in, first-out basis. The Company provides inventory write-downs based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. The write-down is measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market based upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of cost of sales. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes  
    79 

     Table of Contents  

   in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. In addition, the Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers for quantities in excess of the Company s future demand forecasts consistent with its valuation of excess and obsolete inventory. 
  (e) Allowance for Doubtful Accounts     The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on the Company s assessment of the collectibility of customer accounts. The Company regularly reviews the allowance by considering factors such as historical experience, credit quality, age of the accounts receivable balances, economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay, and expected default frequency rates. Trade receivables are written off at the point when they are considered uncollectible. 
  (f) Financing Receivables     The Company provides financing arrangements, including leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified end-user customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. Lease receivables primarily represent sales-type and direct-financing leases. Leases have on average a   four  -year term and are usually collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets, while loan receivables generally have terms of up to   three   years. Financed service contracts typically have terms of   one   to   three years    and primarily relate to technical support services.  
  The Company determines the adequacy of its allowance for credit loss by assessing the risks and losses inherent in its financing receivables by portfolio segment. The portfolio segment is based on the types of financing offered by the Company to its customers: lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed service contracts and other.  
  The Company assesses the allowance for credit loss related to financing receivables on either an individual or a collective basis. The Company considers various factors in evaluating lease and loan receivables and the earned portion of financed service contracts for possible impairment on an individual basis. These factors include the Company s historical experience, credit quality and age of the receivable balances, and economic conditions that may affect a customer s ability to pay. When the evaluation indicates that it is probable that all amounts due pursuant to the contractual terms of the financing agreement, including scheduled interest payments, are unable to be collected, the financing receivable is considered impaired. All such outstanding amounts, including any accrued interest, will be assessed and fully reserved at the customer level. The Company s internal credit risk ratings are categorized as   1   through   10  , with the lowest credit risk rating representing the highest quality financing receivables. Typically, the Company also considers receivables with a risk rating of   8   or higher to be impaired and will include them in the individual assessment for allowance. The Company evaluates the remainder of its financing receivables portfolio for impairment on a collective basis and records an allowance for credit loss at the portfolio segment level. When evaluating the financing receivables on a collective basis, the Company uses expected default frequency rates published by a major third-party credit-rating agency as well as its own historical loss rate in the event of default, while also systematically giving effect to economic conditions, concentration of risk, and correlation.  
  Expected default frequency rates are published quarterly by a major third-party credit-rating agency, and the internal credit risk rating is derived by taking into consideration various customer-specific factors and macroeconomic conditions. These factors, which include the strength of the customer s business and financial performance, the quality of the customer s banking relationships, the Company s specific historical experience with the customer, the performance and outlook of the customer s industry, the customer s legal and regulatory environment, the potential sovereign risk of the geographic locations in which the customer is operating, and independent third-party evaluations, are updated regularly or when facts and circumstances indicate that an update is deemed necessary.   
  Financing receivables are written off at the point when they are considered uncollectible and all outstanding balances, including any previously earned but uncollected interest income, will be reversed and charged against the allowance for credit loss. The Company does not typically have any partially written-off financing receivables.  
  Outstanding financing receivables that are aged   31   days or more from the contractual payment date are considered past due. The Company does not accrue interest on financing receivables that are considered impaired or more than   90   days past due unless either the receivable has not been collected due to administrative reasons or the receivable is well secured and in the process of collection.  Financing receivables may be placed on nonaccrual status earlier if, in management s opinion, a timely collection of the full principal and interest becomes uncertain. After a financing receivable has been categorized as nonaccrual, interest will be recognized when cash is received. A financing receivable may be returned to accrual status after all of the customer s delinquent balances of principal and interest have been settled and the customer remains current for an appropriate period.  
  The Company facilitates arrangements for third-party financing extended to channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment terms ranging from   60   to   90   days. In certain instances, these financing arrangements result in a transfer of the Company s receivables to the third party. The receivables are derecognized upon transfer, as these transfers qualify as true sales, and the Company receives a payment for the receivables from the third party based on the Company s standard payment terms. These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms of up to   three   years. The Company could be called upon to make payments under these guarantees in the event of nonpayment by the channel partners  
    80 

     Table of Contents  

   or end-user customers. Deferred revenue relating to these financing arrangements is recorded in accordance with revenue recognition policies or for the fair value of the financing guarantees. 
  (g) Depreciation and Amortization     Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation or amortization, whenever applicable. Depreciation and amortization expenses for property and equipment were approximately   $1.2 billion  ,   $1.1 billion  , and   $1.1 billion   for fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method, generally over the following periods: 
                      Asset Category 
      
    Period 
      Buildings 
      
    25 years 
      Building improvements 
      
    10 years 
      Furniture and fixtures 
      
    5 years 
      Leasehold improvements 
      
    Shorter of remaining lease term or 5 years 
      Computer equipment and related software 
      
    30 to 36 months 
      Production, engineering, and other equipment 
      
    Up to 5 years 
      Operating lease assets 
      
    Based on lease term generally up to 3 years 

(h) Business Combinations   The Company allocates the fair value of the purchase consideration of its acquisitions to the tangible assets, liabilities, and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR D), based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. IPR D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When a project underlying reported IPR D is completed, the corresponding amount of IPR D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over the asset s  estimated useful life. Acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. 
  (i) Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets     Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth fiscal quarter and, when specific circumstances dictate, between annual tests. When impaired, the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. The goodwill impairment test involves a two-step process. The first step, identifying a potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step would need to be conducted; otherwise, no further steps are necessary as no potential impairment exists. The second step, measuring the impairment loss, compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Any excess of the reporting unit goodwill carrying value over the respective implied fair value is recognized as an impairment loss. Purchased intangible assets with finite lives are carried at cost, less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally   two   to   seven   years. See  Long-Lived Assets,  following, for the Company s policy regarding impairment testing of purchased intangible assets with finite lives. Purchased intangible assets with indefinite lives are assessed for potential impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired. 
  (j) Long-Lived Assets     Long-lived assets that are held and used by the Company are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability of long-lived assets is based on an estimate of the undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived assets that management expects to hold and use is based on the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.  
  (k) Fair Value     Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities required or permitted to be either recorded or disclosed at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it also considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  
  The accounting guidance for fair value measurement requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the level of independent, objective evidence surrounding the inputs used to measure fair value. A financial instrument s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The fair value hierarchy is as follows: 
  Level 1   applies to assets or liabilities for which there are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
    81 

     Table of Contents  

   Level 2   applies to assets or liabilities for which there are inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets); or model-derived valuations in which significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. 
  Level 3   applies to assets or liabilities for which there are unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
  (l) Derivative Instruments     The Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and measures those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on the intended use of the derivative and the resulting designation. For a derivative instrument designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributed to the risk being hedged. For a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately.  For a derivative instrument designated as a net investment hedge of the Company s foreign operations, the gain or loss is recorded in the cumulative translation adjustment within AOCI together with the offsetting loss or gain of the hedged exposure of the underlying foreign operations. Any ineffective portion of the net investment hedges is reported in earnings during the period of change. For derivative instruments that are not designated as accounting hedges, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings in the period of change. The Company records derivative instruments in the statements of cash flows to operating, investing, or financing activities consistent with the cash flows of the hedged item. 
  Hedge effectiveness for foreign exchange forward contracts used as cash flow hedges is assessed by comparing the change in the fair value of the hedge contract with the change in the fair value of the forecasted cash flows of the hedged item.  Hedge effectiveness for equity forward contracts and foreign exchange net investment hedge forward contracts is assessed by comparing changes in fair value due to changes in spot rates for both the derivative and the hedged item.   For foreign exchange option contracts, hedge effectiveness is assessed based on the hedging instrument s entire change in fair value.  Hedge effectiveness for interest rate swaps is assessed by comparing the change in fair value of the swap with the change in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  
  (m) Foreign Currency Translation     Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that operate in a local currency environment, where that local currency is the functional currency, are translated to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, with the resulting translation adjustments directly recorded to a separate component of AOCI. Income and expense accounts are translated at average exchange rates during the year.  Remeasurement adjustments are recorded in other income (loss), net. The effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents was not material for any of the fiscal years presented. 
  (n) Concentrations of Risk     Cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions with reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit risk. The Company seeks to mitigate its credit risks by spreading such risks across multiple counterparties and monitoring the risk profiles of these counterparties. 
  The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and, with the exception of certain financing transactions, does not require collateral from its customers. The Company receives certain of its components from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on a limited number of contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide manufacturing services for its products. The inability of a contract manufacturer or supplier to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could materially impact future operating results. 
  (o) Revenue Recognition    The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. In instances where final acceptance of the product, system, or solution is specified by the customer, revenue is deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. For hosting arrangements, the Company recognizes subscription revenue ratably over the subscription period, while usage revenue is recognized based on utilization. Technical support services revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the period during which the services are to be performed, which is typically from   one   to   three   years. Advanced services transactional revenue is recognized upon delivery or completion of performance. 
  The Company uses distributors that stock inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.     The Company refers to this as its two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. Distributors participate in various cooperative marketing and other programs, and the Company maintains estimated accruals and allowances for these programs. The Company accrues for warranty costs, sales returns, and other allowances based on its historical experience. Shipping and handling fees billed to customers are included in revenue, with the associated costs included in cost of sales. 
    82 

     Table of Contents  

   Many of the Company s products have both software and nonsoftware components that function together to deliver the products  essential functionality. The Company s product offerings fall into the following categories: Switching, Next-Generation Network (NGN) Routing, Service Provider Video, Collaboration, Wireless, Data Center, Security, and Other Products. The Company also provides technical support and advanced services. The Company has a broad customer base that encompasses virtually all types of public and private entities, including enterprise businesses, service providers, and commercial customers.  The Company and its salesforce are not organized by product divisions, and the Company s products and services can be sold standalone or together in various combinations across the Company s geographic segments or customer markets. For example, service provider arrangements are typically larger in scale with longer deployment schedules and involve the delivery of a variety of product technologies, including high-end routing, video and network management software, and other product technologies along with technical support and advanced services. The Company s enterprise and commercial arrangements are unique for each customer and smaller in scale and may include network infrastructure products such as routers and switches or collaboration technologies such as Unified Communications and Cisco TelePresence systems products along with technical support services.  
  The Company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of its product and service offerings due to the needs of its customers. For example, a customer may purchase routing products along with a contract for technical support services. This arrangement would consist of multiple elements, with the products delivered in one reporting period and the technical support services delivered across multiple reporting periods. Another customer may purchase networking products along with advanced service offerings, in which all the elements are delivered within the same reporting period. In addition, distributors purchase products or technical support services on a standalone basis for resale to an end user or for purposes of stocking certain products, and these transactions would not result in a multiple-element arrangement. 
  In many instances, products are sold separately in standalone arrangements as customers may support the products themselves or purchase support on a time-and-materials basis. Advanced services are sometimes sold in standalone engagements such as general consulting, network management, or security advisory projects, and technical support services are sold separately through renewals of annual contracts.  The Company determines its vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) based on its normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold separately. VSOE determination requires that a substantial majority of the historical standalone transactions have the selling prices for a product or service that fall within a reasonably narrow pricing range, generally evidenced by approximately 80% of such historical standalone transactions falling within plus or minus 15% of the median rates. In addition, the Company considers the geographies in which the products or services are sold, major product and service groups and customer classifications, and other environmental or marketing variables in determining VSOE. 
  When the Company is not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements, which may be due to the Company infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products within a narrow range, or only having a limited sales history, such as in the case of certain newly introduced product categories, the Company attempts to determine the selling price of each element based on third-party evidence of selling price (TPE). TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately. Generally, the Company s go-to-market strategy differs from that of its peers, and its offerings contain a significant level of differentiation such that the comparable pricing of products with similar functionality cannot be obtained. Furthermore, the Company is unable to reliably determine what similar competitor products  selling prices are on a standalone basis. Therefore, the Company is typically not able to determine TPE. 
  When the Company is unable to establish fair value using VSOE or TPE, the Company uses estimated selling prices (ESP) in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which the Company would transact a sale if the product or service were regularly sold on a standalone basis. ESP is generally used for new or highly proprietary offerings and solutions or for offerings not priced within a reasonably narrow range. The Company determines ESP for a product or service by considering multiple factors, including, but not limited to, geographies, market conditions, competitive landscape, internal costs, gross margin objectives, and pricing practices. The determination of ESP is made through consultation with and formal approval by the Company s management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. 
  The Company regularly reviews VSOE, TPE, and ESP and maintains internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. There were no material impacts during the fiscal year, nor does the Company currently expect a material impact in the near term from changes in VSOE, TPE, or ESP. 
  The Company s arrangements with multiple deliverables may have a standalone software deliverable that is subject to the software revenue recognition guidance. In these cases, revenue for the software is generally recognized upon shipment or electronic delivery and granting of the license. The revenue for these multiple-element arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the nonsoftware deliverables based on the relative selling prices of all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy in the applicable accounting guidance. In the circumstances where the Company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement, including the software deliverable, ESP is used for the purposes of performing this allocation.  
  (p) Advertising Costs     The Company expenses all advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs included within sales and marketing expenses were approximately   $218 million  ,   $218 million  , and   $325 million   for fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 
    83 

     Table of Contents  

   (q) Share-Based Compensation Expense     The Company measures and recognizes the compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees and directors, including employee stock options, stock grants, stock units, and employee stock purchases related to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( Employee Stock Purchase Rights ) based on estimated fair values. The fair value of employee stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a lattice-binomial option-pricing model ( Lattice-Binomial Model ) or the Black-Scholes model, and for employee stock purchase rights the Company estimates the fair value using the Black-Scholes model. The fair value for time-based stock awards and stock awards that are contingent upon the achievement of financial performance metrics is based on the grant date share price reduced by the present value of the expected dividend yield prior to vesting. The fair value of market-based stock awards is estimated using an option-pricing model on the date of grant. Because share-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, it has been reduced for forfeitures. 
  (r) Software Development Costs     Software development costs, including costs to develop software sold, leased, or otherwise marketed, that are incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility are capitalized if significant. Costs incurred during the application development stage for internal-use software are capitalized if significant. Capitalized software development costs are amortized using the straight-line amortization method over the estimated useful life of the applicable software. Such software development costs required to be capitalized have not been material to date.  
  (s) Income Taxes     Income tax expense is based on pretax financial accounting income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. 
  The Company accounts for uncertainty in income taxes using a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. The Company classifies the liability for unrecognized tax benefits as current to the extent that the Company anticipates payment (or receipt) of cash within one year. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in the provision for income taxes. 
  (t) Computation of Net Income     per Share     Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares. 
  (u) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities    The Company uses a qualitative approach in assessing the consolidation requirement for  variable interest entities. The approach focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the variable interest entity s economic performance and which enterprise has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the variable interest entity. In the event that the Company is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of the variable interest entity will be included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  (v) Use of Estimates     The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for the following, among others: 
             
    Revenue recognition 
                
    Allowances for accounts receivable, sales returns, and financing receivables  
                
    Inventory valuation and liability for purchase commitments with contract manufacturers and suppliers 
                
    Warranty costs 
                
    Share-based compensation expense 
                
    Fair value measurements and other-than-temporary impairments 
                
    Goodwill and purchased intangible asset impairments 
                
    Income taxes 
                
    Loss contingencies 
       84 

     Table of Contents  

   The actual results experienced by the Company may differ materially from management s estimates. 
  (w) New Accounting Updates Recently Adopted 
  In June 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to provide guidance on increasing the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income, which eliminated the option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity.  The Company adopted this accounting standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. 
  In August 2011, the FASB approved a revised accounting standard update intended to simplify how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. The amendment will allow an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on a qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. This accounting standard update became effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, and its adoption did not have any impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  (x) Recent Accounting Standards or Updates Not Yet Effective  
  In December 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standard update requiring enhanced disclosures about certain financial instruments and derivative instruments that are offset in the statement of financial position or that are subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar agreements. This accounting standard update will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, at which time the Company will include the required disclosures.  
  In July 2012, the FASB issued an accounting standard update intended to simplify how an entity tests indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment by providing entities with an option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. This accounting standard update will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. The adoption of this accounting standard update did not have any impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  In February 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard update to require reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to be presented either in the financial statements or in the notes to the financial statements. This accounting standard update will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, at which time the Company will include the required disclosures. 
  In March 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard update requiring an entity to release into net income the entire amount of a cumulative translation adjustment related to its investment in a foreign entity when as a parent it either sells a part or all of its investment in the foreign entity or no longer holds a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets within the foreign entity.  This accounting standard update will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  In July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting standard update that provides explicit guidance on the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward or a tax credit carryforward exists. Under the new standard update, the Company s unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward or a tax credit carryforward.  This accounting standard update will be effective for the Company beginning in the first quarter fiscal 2015 and applied prospectively with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this accounting standard update on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    85 

       Table of Contents  

            3. 
    Business Combinations  
              (a) 
    Acquisition Summary 
     On July 30, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of NDS Group Limited ( NDS ), a provider of video software and content security solutions that enable service providers and media companies to securely deliver and monetize new video entertainment experiences. The acquisition of NDS will be combined with the delivery of Cisco Videoscape, the Company s comprehensive content delivery platform that enables service providers and media companies to deliver next-generation entertainment experiences.  The Company has included revenue from the NDS acquisition, subsequent to the acquisition date, in its Service Provider Video product category. 
  Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, the Company paid total cash consideration of approximately   $5.0 billion  , which included the repayment of   $993 million   of pre-existing NDS debt to third party creditors at the closing of the acquisition. The following table summarizes the purchase consideration for the NDS acquisition (in millions): 

Fair Value 
      Cash consideration to seller 
      
    $ 
    4,012 
      
      Repayment of NDS debt to third party creditors 
      
    993 
      
      Total purchase consideration 
      
    $ 
    5,005 

The payment of the total purchase consideration of approximately $5.0 billion shown above, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired, is classified as a use of cash under investing activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  The total purchase allocation for NDS is summarized as follows (in millions): 

The Company completed   12   additional business combinations during   fiscal 2013  .  A summary of the allocation of the total purchase consideration is presented as follows (in millions):   

  The Company acquired privately held Meraki, Inc. ( Meraki ) in the second quarter of   fiscal 2013  . Meraki offers mid-market customers on-premise networking solutions centrally managed from the cloud. With its acquisition of Meraki, the Company intends to address the shift to cloud networking as a key part of the Company s overall strategy to accelerate the adoption of software-based business models that provide new consumption options for customers and revenue opportunities for partners.   The Company has included revenue from the Meraki acquisition, subsequent to the acquisition date, in its Wireless product category.  
  The Company acquired privately held Intucell, Ltd. ( Intucell ) in the third quarter of   fiscal 2013  . Intucell provides advanced self-optimizing network software for mobile carriers. With its acquisition of Intucell, the Company intends to enhance its commitment to global service providers by adding a critical network intelligence layer to manage and optimize spectrum, coverage and capacity, and ultimately the quality of the mobile experience. The Company has included revenue from the Intucell acquisition, subsequent to the acquisition date, in its NGN Routing product category.  
    86 

       Table of Contents  

   The Company acquired privately held Ubiquisys Limited ( Ubiquisys ) in the fourth quarter of   fiscal 2013  . Ubiquisys offers service providers intelligent 3G and long-term evolution (LTE) small-cell technologies for seamless connectivity across mobile networks. With its acquisition of Ubiquisys, the Company intends to strengthen its commitment to global service providers by enabling a comprehensive small-cell solution that supports the transition to next-generation radio access networks. The Company has included revenue from the Ubiquisys acquisition, subsequent to the acquisition date, in its NGN Routing product category. 
  The total purchase consideration related to the Company s business combinations completed during fiscal 2013 consisted of cash consideration, repayment of debt, and vested share-based awards assumed. The total in cash and cash equivalents acquired from these business combinations was approximately   $156 million  .   
  Fiscal 2012 and 2011  
  Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations completed in fiscal 2012 is summarized as follows (in millions): 

The Company acquired Lightwire, Inc. ( Lightwire ) in the third quarter of fiscal 2012. With its acquisition of Lightwire, a developer of advanced optical interconnect technology for high-speed networking applications, the Company aimed to develop and deliver cost-effective, high-speed networks with the next generation of optical connectivity. The Company included revenue from the Lightwire acquisition, subsequent to the acquisition date, in its Switching product category. 
  The total purchase consideration related to the Company s business combinations completed during fiscal 2012 consisted of either cash consideration or cash consideration along with vested share-based awards assumed. The total cash and cash equivalents acquired from these business combinations was immaterial.  
  Allocation of the purchase consideration for business combinations completed in fiscal 2011 is summarized as follows (in millions): 

(b) 
    Other Acquisition/Divestiture Information  
     Total transaction costs related to the Company s business combination activities during   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011   were   $40 million  ,   $15 million  , and   $10 million  , respectively. These transaction costs were expensed as incurred as general and administrative ( G A ) expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
  The Company s purchase price allocation for business combinations completed during recent periods is preliminary and subject to revision as additional information about fair value of assets and liabilities becomes available. Additional information, which existed as of the acquisition date but at that time was unknown to the Company, may become known to the Company during the remainder of the measurement period, a period not to exceed   12 months   from the acquisition date. Adjustments in the purchase price allocation may require a recasting of the amounts allocated to goodwill retroactive to the period in which the acquisition occurred. 
  The goodwill generated from the Company s business combinations completed during fiscal 2013 is primarily related to expected synergies. The goodwill is generally not deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the operating results of each business combination from the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations for the acquisitions completed during the fiscal years presented have not been presented because the effects of the acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to the Company s financial results. 
  During the third quarter of   fiscal 2013  , the Company completed the sale of its Linksys product line to a third party. The financial statement impact of the Company s Linksys product line and its resulting sale were not material for any of the fiscal years presented.   
    87 

       Table of Contents  

            (c) 
    Pending Acquisition of Sourcefire, Inc. 
     In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Sourcefire, Inc. ( Sourcefire ), a leader in intelligent cybersecurity solutions.  Sourcefire delivers innovative, highly automated security through continuous awareness, threat detection and protection across its portfolio, including next-generation intrusion prevention systems, next-generation firewalls, and advanced malware protection.  With the Sourcefire acquisition the Company aims to accelerate its security strategy of defending, discovering, and remediating advanced threats to provide continuous security solutions to the Company s customers in more places across the network. 
  Under the agreement, the Company has agreed to pay approximately   $2.7 billion   in cash and retention-based incentives to acquire Sourcefire. The acquisition is expected to close in the second half of calendar 2013 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including a regulatory review.  Upon close of the acquisition, revenue from Sourcefire will be included in the Company s Security product category. 
    
             4. 
    Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets  
              (a) 
    Goodwill 
     The following table presents the goodwill allocated to the Company s reportable segments as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , as well as the changes to goodwill during   fiscal 2013 and 2012   (in millions):  

In fiscal 2013, the column entitled  Other  primarily includes purchase accounting adjustments and a goodwill reduction related to divestiture    activity.  In   fiscal 2012  ,   Other  primarily includes foreign currency translation and purchase accounting adjustments. 
    88 

     Table of Contents  

            (b) 
    Purchased Intangible Assets 
     The following tables present details of the Company s intangible assets acquired through business combinations completed during   fiscal 2013 and 2012   (in millions, except years): 

The following tables present details of the Company s purchased intangible assets (in millions):    

Purchased intangible assets include intangible assets acquired through business combinations as well as through direct purchases or licenses.  
    89 

     Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the amortization of purchased intangible assets (in millions): 

There were   no   impairment charges related to purchased intangible assets during   fiscal 2013  . Amortization of purchased intangible assets for   fiscal 2012   and   2011   included impairment charges of approximately   $12 million   and   $164 million  , respectively. The impairment charges of   $12 million   for   fiscal 2012   were due to declines in estimated fair value resulting from reductions in expected future cash flows associated with certain of the Company s technology assets. For   fiscal 2011  , the   $164 million   in impairment charges consisted of   $64 million   of charges to product cost of sales,   $92 million   of charges to amortization of purchased intangibles, and   $8 million   of charges to restructuring and other charges. These impairment charges were primarily due to declines in estimated fair value resulting from reductions in expected future cash flows associated with certain of the Company s consumer products and were categorized as follows:   $97 million   in technology assets,   $40 million   in customer relationships, and   $27 million   in other purchased intangible assets.   
  The estimated future amortization expense of purchased intangible assets with finite lives as of   July 27, 2013   is as follows (in millions): 

90 

       Table of Contents  

            5.  
    Restructuring and Other Charges 
     Fiscal 2011 Plans 
  In   fiscal 2011  , the Company initiated a number of key targeted actions to address several areas in its business model. These actions were intended to simplify and focus the Company s organization and operating model, align the Company s cost structure given transitions in the marketplace, divest or exit underperforming operations, and deliver value to the Company s shareholders. The Company initiated these actions to align its business based on its five foundational priorities: leadership in its core business (routing, switching, and associated services), which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions; collaboration; data center virtualization and cloud; video; and architectures for business transformation.  
  Pursuant to the restructuring that the Company announced in July 2011, the Company has incurred cumulative charges of approximately   $1.1   billion (included as part of the charges discussed below). The Company has completed the July 2011 restructuring and does not expect any remaining charges related to these actions. The following table summarizes the activities related to the restructuring and other charges pursuant to the Company s July 2011 announcement related to the realignment and restructuring of the Company s business as well as certain of its then consumer product lines as announced during April 2011 (in millions): 

Other charges incurred during fiscal 2012 were primarily for the consolidation of excess facilities, as well as an incremental charge related to the sale of the Company s Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations, which sale was completed in the first quarter of   fiscal 2012  .  
  During   fiscal 2011  , the Company incurred a charge of approximately   $63 million   related to a reduction to goodwill as a result of the sale of its Juarez manufacturing operations and also recorded an intangible asset impairment of   $8 million   in connection with the restructuring of the Company s then consumer product lines. Other charges incurred during   fiscal 2011   were primarily related to the consolidation of excess facilities and other charges associated with the realignment and restructuring of the Company s then consumer product lines. During   fiscal 2011  , the Company also recorded charges of approximately   $124 million  , primarily related to inventory and supply chain charges in connection with restructuring related to its then consumer product lines, most notably exiting the Flip Video camera product line, which were recorded in cost of sales and not included in the preceding table. 
    
  August Fiscal 2014 Plan 
  In August 2013 the Company announced a workforce reduction plan.  The Company is rebalancing its resources with a workforce reduction plan that will impact approximately   4,000   employees, or   5%   of the Company s global workforce. The Company expects to take action under this plan beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2014.  The Company currently estimates that it will recognize pre-tax charges to its financial results in an amount not expected to exceed   $550   million consisting of severance and other one-time termination benefits, and other associated costs.  These charges will be primarily cash-based. The Company expects that approximately   $250   million to   $300   million of these charges will be recognized during the first quarter of fiscal 2014 with the remaining amount to be recognized during the rest of fiscal 2014.  
    
    91 

       Table of Contents  

            6.  
    Balance Sheet Details  
     The following tables provide details of selected balance sheet items (in millions): 

92 

       Table of Contents  

            7. 
    Financing Receivables and Guarantees   
              (a) 
    Financing Receivables  
     Financing receivables primarily consist of lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed service contracts and other. Lease receivables represent sales-type and direct-financing leases resulting from the sale of the Company s and complementary third-party products and are typically collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets. Loan receivables represent financing arrangements related to the sale of the Company s products and services, which may include additional funding for other costs associated with network installation and integration of the Company s products and services. Lease receivables consist of arrangements with terms of   four years   on average, while loan receivables generally have terms of up to   three years  . The financed service contracts and other category includes financing receivables related to technical support and advanced services, as well as receivables related to financing of certain indirect costs associated with leases. Revenue related to the technical support services is typically deferred and included in deferred service revenue and is recognized ratably over the period during which the related services are to be performed, which typically ranges from   one   to   three   years.   
  A summary of the Company s financing receivables is presented as follows (in millions): 

As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the deferred service revenue related to the financed service contracts and other was   $2,036 million   and   $1,838 million  , respectively. 
  Contractual maturities of the gross lease receivables at   July 27, 2013   are summarized as follows (in millions): 

Actual cash collections may differ from the contractual maturities due to early customer buyouts, refinancings, or defaults. 
    
    93 

       Table of Contents  

(b) 
    Credit Quality of Financing Receivables 
     Financing receivables categorized by the Company s internal credit risk rating as of    July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   are summarized as follows (in millions):    

The Company determines the adequacy of its allowance for credit loss by assessing the risks and losses inherent in its financing receivables by portfolio segment. The portfolio segment is based on the types of financing offered by the Company to its customers: lease receivables, loan receivables, and financed service contracts and other.   
  The Company s internal credit risk ratings of   1   through   4   correspond to investment-grade ratings, while credit risk ratings of   5   and   6   correspond to non-investment grade ratings. Credit risk ratings of   7   and higher correspond to substandard ratings and constitute a relatively small portion of the Company s financing receivables.  
  In circumstances when collectibility is not deemed reasonably assured, the associated revenue is deferred in accordance with the Company s revenue recognition policies, and the related allowance for credit loss, if any, is included in deferred revenue. The Company also records deferred revenue associated with financing receivables when there are remaining performance obligations, as it does for financed service contracts. Total allowances for credit loss and deferred revenue as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   were   $2,453 million   and   $2,387 million  , respectively, and were associated with financing receivables (net of unearned income) of   $8,292 million   and   $7,626 million   as of their respective period ends. The Company did not modify any financing receivables during the periods presented. 
  The following tables present the aging analysis of financing receivables as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   (in millions):  

94 

       Table of Contents  

Past due financing receivables are those that are   31 days   or more past due according to their contractual payment terms. The data in the preceding tables are presented by contract and the aging classification of each contract is based on the oldest outstanding receivable, and therefore past due amounts also include unbilled and current receivables within the same contract. The preceding aging tables exclude pending adjustments on billed tax assessment in certain international markets. The balances of either unbilled or current financing receivables included in the category of   91 days   plus past due for financing receivables were   $406 million    and             $455 million   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively.  
  As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company had financing receivables of   $87 million  , net of unbilled or current receivables from the same contract, that were in the category for   91 days   plus past due but remained on accrual status. Such balance was   $109 million   as of   July 28, 2012  . A financing receivable may be placed on nonaccrual status earlier if, in management s opinion, a timely collection of the full principal and interest becomes uncertain. 
           (c) 
    Allowance for Credit Loss Rollforward  
     The allowances for credit loss and the related financing receivables are summarized as follows (in millions):  

95 

       Table of Contents  

(d) 
    Financing Guarantees 
     In the ordinary course of business, the Company provides financing guarantees for various third-party financing arrangements extended to channel partners and end-user customers.     Payments under these financing guarantee arrangements were not material for the periods presented. 
  Channel Partner Financing Guarantees     The Company facilitates arrangements for third-party financing extended to channel partners, consisting of revolving short-term financing, generally with payment terms ranging from   60   to   90 days  . These financing arrangements facilitate the working capital requirements of the channel partners, and, in some cases, the Company guarantees a portion of these arrangements. The volume of channel partner financing was   $23.8 billion  ,   $21.3 billion  , and   $18.2 billion   for   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. The balance of the channel partner financing subject to guarantees was   $1.4 billion   and   $1.2 billion   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. 
  End-User Financing Guarantees     The Company also provides financing guarantees for third-party financing arrangements extended to end-user customers related to leases and loans, which typically have terms of up to   three   years. The volume of financing provided by third parties for leases and loans as to which the Company had provided guarantees was   $185 million   for   fiscal 2013  ,   $227 million   for   fiscal 2012  , and   $247 million   for   fiscal 2011  . 
  Financing Guarantee Summary     The aggregate amounts of financing guarantees outstanding at   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , representing the total maximum potential future payments under financing arrangements with third parties along with the related deferred revenue, are summarized in the following table (in millions): 

96 

       Table of Contents  

8. 
    Investments 
              (a) 
    Summary of Available-for-Sale Investments 
     The following tables summarize the Company s available-for-sale investments (in millions):       

  U.S. government agency securities include corporate debt securities that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), while non-U.S. government and agency securities include agency and corporate debt securities that are guaranteed by non-U.S. governments. 
           (b) 
    Gains and Losses on Available-for-Sale Investments 
     The following table presents the gross realized gains and gross realized losses related to the Company s available-for-sale investments (in millions): 

The following table presents the realized net gains (losses) related to the Company s available-for-sale investments by security type (in millions): 

Impairment charges on available-for-sale investments were not material for the periods presented. 
    97 

     Table of Contents  

   The following tables present the breakdown of the available-for-sale investments with gross unrealized losses and the duration that those losses had been unrealized at   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   (in millions):  

As of   July 27, 2013  , for fixed income securities that were in unrealized loss positions, the Company has determined that (i) it does not have the intent to sell any of these investments and (ii) it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell any of these investments before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis. In addition, as of   July 27, 2013  , the Company anticipates that it will recover the entire amortized cost basis of such fixed income securities and has determined that   no   other-than-temporary impairments associated with credit losses were required to be recognized during the year ended   July 27, 2013  . 
  The Company has evaluated its publicly traded equity securities as of   July 27, 2013   and has determined that there was   no   indication of other-than-temporary impairments in the respective categories of unrealized losses. This determination was based on several factors, which include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and the Company s intent and ability to hold the publicly traded equity securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. 
           (c) 
    Maturities of Fixed Income Securities 
     The following table summarizes the maturities of the Company s fixed income securities at   July 27, 2013   (in millions):    

Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations. 
    98 

     Table of Contents  

            (d) 
    Securities Lending 
     The Company periodically engages in securities lending activities with certain of its available-for-sale investments. These transactions are accounted for as a secured lending of the securities, and the securities are typically loaned only on an overnight basis.   The average daily balance of securities lending for fiscal 2013 and 2012 was   $0.7 billion   and   $0.5 billion  , respectively.   The Company requires collateral equal to at least   102%   of the fair market value of the loaned security in the form of cash or liquid, high-quality assets. The Company engages in these secured lending transactions only with highly creditworthy counterparties, and the associated portfolio custodian has agreed to indemnify the Company against collateral losses. The Company did not experience any losses in connection with the secured lending of securities during the periods presented. As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the Company had   no   outstanding securities lending transactions.  
    
             9. 
    Fair Value  
              (a) 
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
     The following tables present assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012    (in millions): 

Level 1 publicly traded equity securities are determined by using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets.  Level 2 fixed income securities are priced using quoted market prices for similar instruments or nonbinding market prices that are corroborated by observable market data. The Company uses inputs such as actual trade data, benchmark yields, broker/dealer quotes, and other similar data, which are obtained from quoted market prices, independent pricing vendors, or other sources, to determine the ultimate fair value of these assets and liabilities. The Company uses such pricing data as the primary input to make its assessments and determinations as to the ultimate valuation of its investment portfolio and has not made, during the periods presented, any material adjustments to such inputs. The Company is ultimately responsible for the financial statements and underlying estimates. The Company s derivative instruments are primarily classified as Level 2, as they are not actively traded and are valued using pricing models that use observable market inputs. The Company did not have any transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements during the periods presented. 
  Level 3 assets include certain derivative instruments, the values of which are determined based on discounted cash flow models using inputs that the Company could not corroborate with market data. The activity related to assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended   July 27, 2013   was not material. 
    99 

     Table of Contents  

   The following table presents a reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended   July 28, 2012   (in millions): 

The Company s asset-backed securities, prior to being sold, were reclassified from Level 3 to Level 2 during fiscal 2012, as  circumstances indicated an increase in market activity, and related observable market data was available for these financial assets. 
           (b) 
    Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
     The following tables present the Company s financial instruments and nonfinancial assets that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis during the indicated periods and the related recognized gains and losses for the periods (in millions): 

The assets in the preceding table were measured at fair value due to events or circumstances the Company identified as having significant impact on their fair value during the respective periods.  To arrive at the valuation of these assets, the Company considers any significant changes in the financial metrics and economic variables and also uses third-party valuation reports to assist in the valuation as necessary. These assets were classified as Level 3 assets because the Company used unobservable inputs to value them. 
  The assets held for sale represent land and buildings which met the criteria to be classified as held for sale. The fair value of assets held for sale was measured with the assistance of third-party valuation models which used discounted cash flow techniques as part of their analysis. The fair value measurement was categorized as Level 3 as significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation report. The impairment charges as a result of the valuations, which represented the difference between the fair value less cost to sell and the carrying amount of the assets held for sale, were included in G A expenses. 
  The fair value measurement of the impaired investments was classified as Level 3 because significant unobservable inputs were used in the valuation due to the absence of quoted market prices and inherent lack of liquidity. Significant unobservable inputs, which included financial metrics of comparable private and public companies, financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, recent  financing activities of the investees, and the investees  capital structure as well as other economic variables, reflected the assumptions market participants would use in pricing these assets. The impairment charges, representing the difference between the net book value and the fair value as a result of the evaluation, were recorded to other income (loss), net.  
  The fair value of purchased intangible assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis was categorized as Level 3 due to the use of significant unobservable inputs in the valuation.  Significant unobservable inputs that were used included expected revenues and net income related to the assets and the expected life of the assets.  The difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of the assets was recorded as an impairment charge. There was no impairment charge related to purchased intangible assets during the year ended   July 27, 2013  . For the years ended   July 28, 2012   and   July 30, 2011  , such impairment charges were recorded in cost of sales and operating expenses as appropriate. See Note 4. 
    100 

     Table of Contents  

   The loss related to the manufacturing operations held for sale during fiscal 2011 was primarily related to a reduction in goodwill related to the sale of the Company s set-top box manufacturing operations in Juarez, Mexico, which sale was completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2012. See Note 5. This goodwill reduction represented the difference between the carrying value and the implied fair value of the goodwill associated with the disposal group being evaluated.    
           (c) 
    Other Fair Value Disclosures  
     As of   July 27, 2013  , the carrying value of the Company s investments in privately held companies that were accounted for under the cost method was   $242 million  . It was not practicable to estimate the fair value of this portfolio. 
  The fair value of the Company s short-term loan receivables and financed service contracts approximates their carrying value due to their short duration. 
  The aggregate carrying value of the Company s long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts and other as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   was   $2.1 billion   and   $1.9 billion  , respectively.  The estimated fair value of the Company s long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts and other approximates their carrying value. The Company uses significant unobservable inputs in determining discounted cash flows to estimate the fair value of its long-term loan receivables and financed service contracts and therefore they are categorized as Level 3.  
  As of   July 27, 2013  , the fair value of the Company s long-term debt was   $17.6 billion   with a carrying amount of   $16.2 billion  .  This compares to a fair value of   $18.8 billion   and a carrying amount of   $16.3 billion   as of   July 28, 2012  .  The fair value of the long-term debt was determined based on observable market prices in a less active market and was categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.    
    
              (a) 
    Short-Term Debt 
     The following table summarizes the Company s short-term debt (in millions, except percentages): 

In   fiscal 2011  , the Company established a short-term debt financing program of up to   $3.0 billion   through the issuance of commercial paper notes. The Company uses the proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes. The Company had   no   commercial paper notes outstanding as of each of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  .  
  Other notes and borrowings consisted of the short-term portion of secured borrowings associated with customer financing arrangements as well as notes and credit facilities with a number of financial institutions that are available to certain of the Company s foreign subsidiaries.  These notes and credit facilities were subject to various terms and foreign currency market interest rates pursuant to individual financial arrangements between the financing institution and the applicable foreign subsidiary.  
  As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the estimated fair value of the short-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the short maturities. 
    101 

     Table of Contents  

            (b) 
    Long-Term Debt 
     The following table summarizes the Company s long-term debt (in millions, except percentages): 

To achieve its interest rate risk management objectives, the Company has entered into interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of   $5.25 billion   designated as fair value hedges of certain of its fixed-rate senior notes. In effect, these swaps convert the fixed interest rates of the fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates. See Note 11. 
  The effective rates for the fixed-rate debt include the interest on the notes, the accretion of the discount, and, if applicable, adjustments related to hedging. Interest is payable semiannually on each class of the senior fixed-rate notes and payable quarterly on the floating-rate notes. Each of the senior fixed-rate notes is redeemable by the Company at any time, subject to a make-whole premium.  
  The senior notes rank at par with the commercial paper notes that may be issued in the future pursuant to the Company s short-term debt financing program, as discussed above under  (a) Short-Term Debt.  As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company was in compliance with all debt covenants. 
  Future principal payments for long-term debt as of   July 27, 2013   are summarized as follows (in millions): 

102 

     Table of Contents  

            (c) 
    Credit Facility 
     On February 17, 2012, the Company entered into a credit agreement with certain institutional lenders that provides for a   $3.0 billion   unsecured revolving credit facility that is scheduled to expire on   February 17, 2017  . Any advances under the credit agreement will accrue interest at rates that are equal to, based on certain conditions, either (i) the higher of the Federal Funds rate plus   0.50%  , Bank of America s  prime rate  as announced from time to time, or one-month LIBOR plus   1.00%   or (ii) LIBOR plus a margin that is based on the Company s senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard   Poor s Financial Services, LLC and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. The credit agreement requires the Company to comply with certain covenants, including that it maintains an interest coverage ratio as defined in the agreement. As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company was in compliance with all such required covenants, and the Company had not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. 
  The Company may also, upon the agreement of either the then-existing lenders or additional lenders not currently parties to the agreement, increase the commitments under the credit facility by up to an additional   $2.0 billion   and/or extend the expiration date of the credit facility by up to two additional years, or up to   February 17, 2019  .  
    
             11. 
    Derivative Instruments  
              (a) 
    Summary of Derivative Instruments 
     The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage exposures to foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, and equity price risks. The Company s primary objective in holding derivatives is to reduce the volatility of earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. The Company s derivatives expose it to credit risk to the extent that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreement. The Company does, however, seek to mitigate such risks by limiting its counterparties to major financial institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one counterparty resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored. Management does not expect material losses as a result of defaults by counterparties. 
  The fair values of the Company s derivative instruments and the line items on the Consolidated Balance Sheets to which they were recorded are summarized as follows (in millions): 

103 

     Table of Contents  

   The effects of the Company s cash flow and net investment hedging instruments on OCI and the Consolidated Statements of Operations are summarized as follows (in millions): 

As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company estimates that approximately   $20 million   of net derivative gains related to its cash flow hedges included in AOCI will be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months. 
  The effect on the Consolidated Statements of Operations of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and the underlying hedged items is summarized as follows (in millions): 

The effect on the Consolidated Statements of Operations of derivative instruments not designated as hedges is summarized as follows (in millions): 

The notional amounts of the Company s outstanding derivatives are summarized as follows (in millions): 

104 

     Table of Contents  

            (b) 
    Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 
     The Company conducts business globally in numerous currencies. Therefore, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. To limit the exposure related to foreign currency changes, the Company enters into foreign currency contracts. The Company does not enter into such contracts for trading purposes. 
  The Company hedges forecasted foreign currency transactions related to certain operating expenses and service cost of sales with currency options and forward contracts. These currency option and forward contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, generally have maturities of less than   18 months  . The Company assesses effectiveness based on changes in total fair value of the derivatives. The effective portion of the derivative instrument s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of AOCI and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the hedged exposure affects earnings. The ineffective portion, if any, of the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. During the fiscal years presented, the Company did not discontinue any cash flow hedges for which it was probable that a forecasted transaction would not occur. 
  The Company enters into foreign exchange forward and option contracts to reduce the short-term effects of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities such as foreign currency receivables, including long-term customer financings, investments, and payables. These derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in other income (loss), net, and substantially offset foreign exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of intercompany balances or other current assets, investments, or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity. 
  The Company hedges certain net investments in its foreign operations with forward contracts to reduce the effects of foreign currency fluctuations on the Company s  net investment in those foreign subsidiaries. These derivative instruments generally have maturities of up to   six months  . 
           (c) 
    Interest Rate Risk 
     Interest Rate Derivatives, Investments     The Company s primary objective for holding fixed income securities is to achieve an appropriate investment return consistent with preserving principal and managing risk. To realize these objectives, the Company may utilize interest rate swaps or other derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges. As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the Company did not have any outstanding interest rate derivatives related to its fixed income securities. 
  Interest Rate Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedge, Long-Term Debt     In fiscal 2013, the Company entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that were issued in February 2009 and November 2009 and are due in   2019   and   2020  , respectively. In fiscal 2011, the Company entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges related to fixed-rate senior notes that were issued in March 2011 and are due in   2014   and   2017  . In fiscal 2010, the Company entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges for a portion of senior fixed-rate notes that were issued in 2006 and are due in   2016  . Under these interest rate swaps, the Company receives fixed-rate interest payments and makes interest payments based on LIBOR plus a fixed number of basis points. The effect of such swaps is to convert the fixed interest rates of the senior fixed-rate notes to floating interest rates based on LIBOR. The gains and losses related to changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps are included in interest expense and substantially offset changes in the fair value of the hedged portion of the underlying debt that are attributable to the changes in market interest rates. The fair value of the interest rate swaps was reflected in other assets.  
           (d) 
    Equity Price Risk  
     The Company may hold equity securities for strategic purposes or to diversify its overall investment portfolio. The publicly traded equity securities in the Company s portfolio are subject to price risk. To manage its exposure to changes in the fair value of certain equity securities, the Company has entered into equity derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges. The changes in the value of the hedging instruments are included in other income (loss), net, and offset the change in the fair value of the underlying hedged investment. In addition, the Company periodically manages the risk of its investment portfolio by entering into equity derivatives that are not designated as accounting hedges. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are also included in other income (loss), net.  
  The Company is also exposed to variability in compensation charges related to certain deferred compensation obligations to employees. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the Company utilizes derivatives such as total return swaps to economically hedge this exposure.  
           (e) 
    Hedge Effectiveness  
     For the fiscal years presented, amounts excluded from the assessment  of hedge effectiveness were not material for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges. In addition, hedge ineffectiveness for fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges was not material for any of the fiscal years presented.    
    105 

     Table of Contents  

            (f) 
    Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features 
     Certain derivative instruments are executed under agreements that have provisions requiring the Company and the counterparty to maintain a specified credit rating from certain credit-rating agencies. If the Company s or the counterparty s credit-rating falls below a specified credit rating, either party has the right to request collateral on the derivatives  net liability position. Such provisions did not affect the Company s financial position as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  . 
    
             12. 
    Commitments and Contingencies  
              (a) 
    Operating Leases 
     The Company leases office space in many U.S. locations. Outside the United States, larger leased sites include sites in Belgium, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom.  The Company also leases equipment and vehicles. Future minimum lease payments under all noncancelable operating leases with an initial term in excess of one year as of   July 27, 2013   are as follows (in millions): 

Rent expense for office space and equipment totaled   $416 million  ,   $404 million  , and   $428 million   in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. 
           (b) 
    Purchase Commitments with Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers  
     The Company purchases components from a variety of suppliers and uses several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for its products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, the Company enters into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers that either allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined by the Company or establish the parameters defining the Company s requirements. A significant portion of the Company s reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, noncancelable, and unconditional commitments. In certain instances, these agreements allow the Company the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust the Company s requirements based on its business needs prior to firm orders being placed. As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the Company had total purchase commitments for inventory of   $4,033 million   and   $3,869 million  , respectively. 
  The Company records a liability for firm, noncancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of its future demand forecasts consistent with the valuation of the Company s excess and obsolete inventory. As of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the liability for these purchase commitments was   $172 million   and   $193 million  , respectively, and was included in other current liabilities. 
           (c) 
    Other Commitments 
     In connection with the Company s business combinations and asset purchases, the Company has agreed to pay certain additional amounts contingent upon the achievement of certain agreed-upon technology, development, product, or other milestones or the continued employment with the Company of certain employees of the acquired entities. The Company recognized such compensation expense of   $123 million  ,   $50 million  , and   $127 million   during   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively.   As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company estimated that future compensation expense and contingent consideration of up to   $1.2 billion   may be required to be recognized pursuant to the applicable business combination and asset purchase agreements, which included a maximum potential   $863 million   in milestone payments related to Insieme as more fully discussed in the subsection entitled  Insieme Networks, Inc.  within section (d) immediately below.  
  The Company also has certain funding commitments, primarily related to its investments in privately held companies and venture funds, some of which are based on the achievement of certain agreed-upon milestones, and some of which are required to be funded on demand. The funding commitments were   $263 million   and   $120 million   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively. 
    106 

     Table of Contents  

            (d) 
    Variable Interest Entities 
     VCE Joint Venture    VCE is a joint venture that the Company formed in fiscal 2010 with EMC Corporation ( EMC ), with investments from VMware, Inc. ( VMware ) and Intel Corporation. VCE helps organizations leverage best-in-class technologies and disciplines from Cisco, EMC, and VMware to enable the transformation to cloud computing.  
  As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company s cumulative gross investment in VCE was approximately   $507 million  , inclusive of accrued interest, and its ownership percentage was approximately   35%  .  The Company invested approximately   $93 million   in VCE during   fiscal 2013   and   $276 million   during   fiscal 2012  .  
  The Company accounts for its investment in VCE under the equity method, and its portion of VCE s net loss is recognized in other income (loss), net.  The Company s share of VCE s losses, based upon its portion of the overall funding, was approximately   36.8%   for each of the fiscal years ended   July 27, 2013  ,   July 28, 2012  , and   July 30, 2011  , respectively. As of   July 27, 2013  ,  the Company had recorded cumulative losses from VCE of   $422 million   since inception, of which losses of   $183 million  ,   $160 million  , and   $76 million   were recorded for the fiscal years ended   July 27, 2013  ,   July 28, 2012  , and   July 30, 2011  , respectively.  The Company s carrying value in VCE as of   July 27, 2013   of   $85 million   was recorded in other assets.  
  Over the next 12 months, as VCE scales its operations, the Company expects that it will make additional investments in VCE and may incur additional losses proportionate with the Company s share ownership. 
  From time to time, EMC and Cisco may enter into guarantee agreements on behalf of VCE to indemnify third parties, such as customers, for monetary damages. Such guarantees were not material as of   July 27, 2013  .  
  Insieme Networks, Inc.    In the third quarter of   fiscal 2012  , the Company made an investment in Insieme Networks, Inc. ( Insieme ), an early stage company focused on research and development in the data center market. As set forth in the agreement between the Company and Insieme, this investment includes   $100 million   of funding and a license to certain of the Company s technology. In addition, pursuant to a November 2012 amendment to the agreement between the Company and Insieme, the Company agreed to invest an additional   $35 million   in Insieme upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company owned approximately   84%   of Insieme as a result of these investments and has consolidated the results of Insieme in its Consolidated Financial Statements effective as of the third quarter of   fiscal 2012  .  
  In connection with this investment, the Company and Insieme have entered into a put/call option agreement that provides the Company with the right to purchase the remaining interests in Insieme.  In addition, the noncontrolling interest holders can require the Company to purchase their shares upon the occurrence of certain events.  If the Company acquires the remaining interests of Insieme, the noncontrolling interest holders are eligible to receive two milestone payments, which will be determined using agreed-upon formulas based on revenue for certain of Insieme s products. The Company will begin recognizing the amounts due under the milestone payments when it is determined that such payments are probable of being earned, which may occur in the first half of fiscal 2014.  When such a determination is made, the milestone payments will then be recorded as compensation expense by the Company based on an estimate of the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned, pursuant to a vesting schedule. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the amounts probable of being earned and the continued vesting will result in adjustments to the recorded compensation expense. The maximum amount that could be recorded as compensation expense by the Company is approximately   $863 million  . This amount was increased from the previous maximum of   $750 million   due to a November 2012 amendment to the agreement, as the parties recognized that higher staffing levels may be necessary to perform additional product development. The milestone payments, if earned, are expected to be paid primarily during fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2017.  
  Other Variable Interest Entities      In the ordinary course of business, the Company has investments in other privately held companies and provides financing to certain customers. These other privately held companies and customers may be considered to be variable interest entities. The Company evaluates on an ongoing basis its investments in these other privately held companies and its customer financings and has determined that as of   July 27, 2013   there were no other variable interest entities required to be consolidated in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
           (e) 
    Product Warranties and Guarantees 
     The following table summarizes the activity related to product warranty liability during   fiscal 2013 and 2012   (in millions): 

107 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company accrues for warranty costs as part of its cost of sales based on associated material product costs, labor costs for technical support staff, and associated overhead. The Company s products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from   90 days   to   five years  , and for some products the Company provides a limited lifetime warranty. 
  In the normal course of business, the Company indemnifies other parties, including customers, lessors, and parties to other transactions with the Company, with respect to certain matters. The Company has agreed to hold the other parties harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its officers and directors, and the Company s Amended and Restated Bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to the Company s agents. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the Company s limited history with prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the Company s operating results, financial position, or cash flows. 
  The Company also provides financing guarantees, which are generally for various third-party financing arrangements to channel partners and other end-user customers. See Note 7.  
  The Company s other guarantee arrangements as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   that were subject to recognition and disclosure requirements were not material. 
           (f) 
    Legal Proceedings 
     Brazilian authorities have investigated the Company s Brazilian subsidiary and certain of its current and former employees, as well as a Brazilian importer of the Company s products, and its affiliates and employees, relating to alleged evasion of import taxes and alleged improper transactions involving the subsidiary and the importer. Brazilian tax authorities have assessed claims against the Company s Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with the Brazilian importer for import taxes, interest, and penalties. In addition to claims asserted by the Brazilian federal tax authorities in prior fiscal years, tax authorities from the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo have asserted similar claims on the same legal basis in prior fiscal years. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the Brazilian federal tax authorities asserted an additional claim against the Company s Brazilian subsidiary based on a theory of joint liability with respect to an alleged underpayment of income taxes, social taxes, interest, and penalties by a Brazilian distributor. 
  The asserted claims by Brazilian federal tax authorities are for calendar years 2003 through 2008, and the asserted claims by the tax authorities from the state of Sao Paulo are for calendar years 2005 through 2007. The total asserted claims by Brazilian state and federal tax authorities aggregate to approximately   $385 million   for the alleged evasion of import and other taxes, approximately   $1.1 billion   for interest, and approximately   $1.7 billion   for various penalties, all determined using an exchange rate as of   July 27, 2013  . The Company has completed a thorough review of the matters and believes the asserted claims against the Company s Brazilian subsidiary are without merit, and the Company is defending the claims vigorously. While the Company believes there is no legal basis for the alleged liability, due to the complexities and uncertainty surrounding the judicial process in Brazil and the nature of the claims asserting joint liability with the importer, the Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome against its Brazilian subsidiary and is unable to reasonably estimate a range of loss, if any. The Company does not expect a final judicial determination for several years.  
  On March 31, 2011 and April 12, 2011, purported shareholder class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company and certain of its officers and directors. The lawsuits were consolidated, and an amended consolidated complaint was filed on December 2, 2011.  The consolidated action was purportedly brought on behalf of purchasers of the Company s publicly traded securities between February 3, 2010 and May 11, 2011. Plaintiffs alleged that defendants made false and misleading statements, purported to assert claims for violations of the federal securities laws, and sought unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. On February 12, 2012, the Company filed a motion seeking to dismiss all claims in the amended complaint. On March 29, 2013, the Court granted the Company s motion and dismissed the amended complaint, finding no facts or inferences to support the plaintiffs  allegations. Plaintiffs chose not to file an amended complaint and not to pursue an appeal. The Court dismissed the entire lawsuit with prejudice on April 29, 2013. 
  Beginning on April 8, 2011, a number of purported shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in both the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the California Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara against the Company s Board of Directors and several of its officers. The federal lawsuits have been consolidated in the Northern District of California. Plaintiffs in both the federal and state derivative actions allege that the Board allowed certain officers to make allegedly false and misleading statements. The complaint includes claims for violation of the federal securities laws, breach of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, and violations of the California Corporations Code. The complaint seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, and other relief.   In light of the United States District Court s dismissal of the purported shareholder class action noted above, the consolidated federal derivative action was dismissed on May 9, 2013, and the state derivative lawsuits were dismissed on May 16, 2013. 
    108 

     Table of Contents  

   The Company was subject to patent claims asserted by VirnetX, Inc. on August 11, 2010 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  VirnetX alleged that various Cisco products that implement a method for secure communication using virtual private networks infringe certain patents. VirnetX sought monetary damages.  The trial on these claims began on March 4, 2013. On March 14, 2013, the jury entered a verdict finding that the Company s accused products do not infringe any of VirnetX s patents asserted in the lawsuit. On April 3, 2013, VirnetX filed a motion seeking a new trial on the issue of infringement, which the Company has opposed. The Court held a hearing on VirnetX s motion for a new trial in June 2013 but has not issued a ruling. 
  The Company was subject to numerous patent, tort, and contract claims asserted by XpertUniverse on March 10, 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Shortly before trial, the Court dismissed on summary judgment all claims initially asserted by XpertUniverse except a claim for infringement of two XpertUniverse patents and a claim for fraud by concealment. XpertUniverse s remaining patent claims alleged that three Cisco products in the field of expertise location software infringed two XpertUniverse patents. XpertUniverse s fraud by concealment claim alleged that the Company did not disclose its decision not to admit XpertUniverse into a partner program. The trial on these remaining claims began on March 11, 2013. On March 22, 2013, the jury entered a verdict finding that two of the Company s  products infringed two of XpertUniverse s patents and awarded XpertUniverse damages of less than   $35 thousand  . The jury also found for XpertUniverse on its fraud by concealment claim and awarded damages of   $70 million  . The Company believes it has strong arguments to overturn the fraud damage award or to obtain a new trial. In May and June, 2013, the Company filed post-trial motions.   The Court has not yet set a date for a hearing. If the Court does not grant the Company s post-trial motions, the Company will pursue an appeal. While the ultimate outcome of the case may still result in a loss, the Company does not expect it to be material. 
  The Company and a service provider customer were subject to patent claims asserted by TiVo, Inc. ( TiVo ) on June 4, 2012 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  TiVo alleged that the Company s digital video recorders deployed by the service provider customer infringed certain of its patents.  TiVo sought monetary damages and injunctive relief.  The trial on these claims was scheduled to begin in March 2014.  TiVo previously filed a similar patent lawsuit, which was scheduled for trial in June 2013, against the same service provider customer, accusing digital video recorders manufactured by one of the Company s competitors.  Beginning in late May 2013, prior to that trial, the parties to that case and the Company conducted a mediation which resulted in a settlement and dismissal of all outstanding litigation between the parties. Under the terms of the settlement, in exchange for a single, lump sum monetary payment to TiVo by the Company of   $294 million  , the Company received a perpetual license to the patents-in-suit, the Company and TiVo entered into a ten year cross license applicable to the video field, and the Company and TiVo agreed not to sue one another for infringement of any other patents for a period of five years.  In connection with the settlement, the Company recorded   $172 million   to cost of sales during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, with the remainder of the settlement recorded against the amounts previously reserved and as an intangible asset to be amortized over its estimated useful life. 
  In addition, the Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including intellectual property litigation. While the outcome of these matters is currently not determinable, the Company does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  
    
    109 

       Table of Contents  

            13. 
    Shareholders  Equity  
              (a)   
    Cash Dividends on Shares of Common Stock  
     During   fiscal 2013  , the Company declared and paid cash dividends of   $0.62   per common share, or   $3.3 billion  , on the Company s outstanding common stock.  During   fiscal 2012  , the Company declared and paid cash dividends of   $0.28   per common share, or    $1.5 billion  , on the Company s outstanding common stock. 
  On   September 3, 2013  , the Company s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of   $0.17   per common share to be paid on   October 23, 2013   to all shareholders of record as of the close of business on   October 3, 2013  .  Any future dividends will be subject to the approval of the Company s Board of Directors. 
           (b) 
    Stock Repurchase Program 
     In September 2001, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company s Board of Directors had authorized an aggregate repurchase of up to   $82 billion   of common stock under this program, and the remaining authorized repurchase amount was   $3.1 billion   with no termination date. A summary of the stock repurchase activity under the stock repurchase program, reported based on the trade date, is summarized as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts): 

The purchase price for the shares of the Company s stock repurchased is reflected as a reduction to shareholders  equity. The Company is required to allocate the purchase price of the repurchased shares as (i) a reduction to retained earnings and (ii) a reduction of common stock and additional paid-in capital. Issuance of common stock and the tax benefit related to employee stock incentive plans are recorded as an increase to common stock and additional paid-in capital. 
           (c) 
    Other Repurchases of Common Stock 
     For the years ended   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , the Company repurchased approximately   16 million   and   12 million   shares, or   $330 million   and   $200 million  , of common stock, respectively, in settlement of employee tax withholding obligations due upon the vesting of restricted stock or stock units. 
           (d) 
    Preferred Stock 
     Under the terms of the Company s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the Company s authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock. 
           (e) 
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
     The components of AOCI, net of tax, and other comprehensive income (loss), excluding noncontrolling interest, are summarized as follows (in millions): 

110 

       Table of Contents  

            14. 
    Employee Benefit Plans   
              (a) 
    Employee Stock Incentive Plans 
     As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company had   five   stock incentive plans: the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan  the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the  1996 Plan  the 1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan (the  Supplemental Plan  the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  SA Acquisition Plan  and the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan (the  WebEx Acquisition Plan ). In addition, the Company has, in connection with the acquisitions of various companies, assumed the share-based awards granted under stock incentive plans of the acquired companies or issued share-based awards in replacement thereof. Share-based awards are designed to reward employees for their long-term contributions to the Company and provide incentives for them to remain with the Company. The number and frequency of share-based awards are based on competitive practices, operating results of the Company, government regulations, and other factors. Since the inception of the stock incentive plans, the Company has granted share-based awards to a significant percentage of its employees, and the majority has been granted to employees below the vice president level. The Company s primary stock incentive plans are summarized as follows:  
  2005 Plan        As amended on November 15, 2007, the maximum number of shares issuable under the 2005 Plan over its term is   559 million   shares plus the amount of any shares underlying awards outstanding on November 15, 2007 under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled. If any awards granted under the 2005 Plan are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the shares underlying the awards will again be available under the 2005 Plan. 
  Pursuant to an amendment approved by the Company s shareholders on November 12, 2009, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan was reduced by   1.5   shares for each share awarded as a stock grant or a stock unit, and any shares underlying awards outstanding under the 1996 Plan, the SA Acquisition Plan, and the WebEx Acquisition Plan that expire unexercised at the end of their maximum terms become available for reissuance under the 2005 Plan. The 2005 Plan permits the granting of stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units (RSUs), the vesting of which may be performance-based or market-based along with the requisite service requirement, and stock appreciation rights to employees (including employee directors and officers), consultants of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and non-employee directors of the Company. Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the 2005 Plan have an exercise price of at least   100%   of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and prior to November 12, 2009 have an expiration date no later than   nine years   from the grant date. The expiration date for stock options and stock appreciation rights granted subsequent to the amendment approved on November 12, 2009 shall be no later than   10 years   from the grant date.  
  The stock options will generally become exercisable for   20%   or   25%   of the option shares   one year   from the date of grant and then ratably over the following   48 months   or   36 months  , respectively. Time-based stock grants and time-based RSUs will generally vest with respect to   20%   or   25%   of the shares or share units covered by the grant on each of the first through fifth or fourth anniversaries of the date of the grant, respectively. Performance-based and market-based RSUs typically vest at the end of the   three  -year requisite service period or earlier if the award recipient meets certain retirement eligibility conditions. The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors has the discretion to use different vesting schedules. Stock appreciation rights may be awarded in combination with stock options or stock grants, and such awards shall provide that the stock appreciation rights will not be exercisable unless the related stock options or stock grants are forfeited. Stock grants may be awarded in combination with non-statutory stock options, and such awards may provide that the stock grants will be forfeited in the event that the related non-statutory stock options are exercised. 
  1996 Plan     The 1996 Plan expired on December 31, 2006, and the Company can no longer make equity awards under the 1996 Plan. The maximum number of shares issuable over the term of the 1996 Plan was   2.5 billion   shares. Stock options granted under the 1996 Plan have an exercise price of at least   100%   of the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date and expire no later than   nine   years from the grant date. The stock options generally became exercisable for   20%   or   25%   of the option shares one year from the date of grant and then ratably over the following   48   or   36 months  , respectively.    Certain other grants utilized a 60-month ratable vesting schedule. In addition, the Board of Directors, or other committees administering the 1996 Plan, had the discretion to use a different vesting schedule and did so from time to time.    
  Supplemental Plan   The Supplemental Plan expired on December 31, 2007, and the Company can no longer make equity awards under the Supplemental Plan. Officers and members of the Company s Board of Directors were not eligible to participate in the Supplemental Plan.   Nine million   shares were reserved for issuance under the Supplemental Plan. 
    111 

       Table of Contents  

   Acquisition Plans   In connection with the Company s acquisitions of Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. ( Scientific-Atlanta ) and WebEx Communications, Inc. ( WebEx ), the Company adopted the SA Acquisition Plan and the WebEx Acquisition Plan, respectively, each effective upon completion of the applicable acquisition. These plans constitute assumptions, amendments, restatements, and renamings of the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan of Scientific-Atlanta and the WebEx Communications, Inc. Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, respectively. The plans permit the grant of stock options, stock, stock units, and stock appreciation rights to certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates who had been employed by Scientific-Atlanta or its subsidiaries or WebEx or its subsidiaries, as applicable. As a result of the shareholder approval of the amendment and extension of the 2005 Plan, as of November 15, 2007, the Company will no longer make stock option grants or direct share issuances under either the SA Acquisition Plan or the WebEx Acquisition Plan. 
           (b) 
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
     The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which includes its subplan, the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan (together, the  Purchase Plan ), under which   471.4 million   shares of the Company s common stock have been reserved for issuance as of   July 27, 2013  . Eligible employees are offered shares through a   24-month offering period, which consists of four consecutive 6-month purchase periods  . Employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company s stock at a discount of up to   15%   of the lesser of the market value at the beginning of the offering period or the end of each   6  -month purchase period. The Purchase Plan is scheduled to terminate on   January 3, 2020  . The Company issued   36 million  ,   35 million  , and   34 million   shares under the Purchase Plan in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. As of   July 27, 2013  ,   51 million   shares were available for issuance under the Purchase Plan. 
           (c) 
    Summary of Share-Based Compensation Expense 
     Share-based compensation expense consists primarily of expenses for stock options, stock purchase rights, restricted stock, and restricted stock units granted to employees. The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense (in millions): 

As of   July 27, 2013  , the total compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards not yet recognized was   $2.3 billion  , which is expected to be recognized over approximately   2.5   years on a weighted-average basis.  
           (d) 
    Share-Based Awards Available for Grant 
     A summary of share-based awards available for grant is as follows (in millions):   

  As reflected in the preceding table, for each share awarded as restricted stock or subject to a restricted stock unit award under the 2005 Plan, an equivalent of   1.5   shares was deducted from the available share-based award balance. For restricted stock units that were awarded with vesting contingent upon the achievement of future financial performance or market-based metrics, the maximum awards that can be achieved upon full vesting of such awards were reflected in the preceding table.  
    112 

       Table of Contents  

            (e) 
    Restricted Stock and Stock Unit Awards 
     A summary of the restricted stock and stock unit activity, which includes time-based and performance-based or market-based restricted stock units, is as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):   

           (f) 
    Stock Option Awards 
     A summary of the stock option activity is as follows (in millions, except per-share amounts):   

  The total pretax intrinsic value of stock options exercised during   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011   was   $661 million  ,   $333 million  , and   $312 million  , respectively. 
    113 

       Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable stock options as of   July 27, 2013   (in millions, except years and share prices):   

  The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on the Company s closing stock price of   $25.50   as of July 26, 2013, that would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their stock options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money stock options exercisable as of   July 27, 2013   was   155 million  . As of   July 28, 2012  ,   512 million   outstanding stock options were exercisable and the weighted-average exercise price was   $22.65  . 
           (g) 
    Valuation of Employee Share-Based Awards 
     Time-based restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units (PRSUs) that are based on  the Company s financial performance metrics  are valued using the market value of the Company s common stock on the date of grant, discounted for the present value of expected dividends. On the date of grant, the Company estimated the fair value of the total shareholder return (TSR) component of the PRSUs using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The assumptions for the valuation of time-based RSUs and PRSUs are summarized as follows: 

The PRSUs granted during fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 are contingent on the achievement of the Company s financial performance metrics or its comparative market-based returns.  Generally,   50%   of the PRSUs are earned based on the average of annual operating cash flow and earnings per share goals established at the beginning of each fiscal year over a three-year performance period. Generally, the remaining   50%   of the PRSUs are earned based on the Company s TSR measured against the benchmark TSR of a peer group over the same period. Each PRSU recipient could vest in   0%   to   150%   of the target shares granted.   
    114 

       Table of Contents  

   The assumptions for the valuation of employee stock purchase rights are summarized as follows: 

The valuation of employee stock purchase rights and the related assumptions are for the employee stock purchases made during the respective fiscal years.   
  The Company uses third-party analyses to assist in developing the assumptions used in, as well as calibrating, its lattice-binomial and Black-Scholes models. The Company is responsible for determining the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of its share-based payment awards.  
  The Company used the implied volatility for traded options (with contract terms corresponding to the expected life of the employee stock purchase rights) on the Company s stock as the expected volatility assumption required in the Black-Scholes model. The implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the Company s employee stock purchase rights. The dividend yield assumption is based on the history and expectation of dividend payouts at the grant date. 
   The Company sponsors the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the  Plan ) to provide retirement benefits for its employees. As allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides for tax-deferred salary contributions and after-tax contributions for eligible employees. The Plan allows employees to contribute from   1%   to   75%   of their annual compensation to the Plan on a pretax and after-tax basis, and effective January 1, 2011, the Plan also allows employees to make Roth contributions. Employee contributions are limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the Internal Revenue Code. The Company matches pretax employee contributions up to   100%   of the first   4.5%   of eligible earnings that are contributed by employees. Therefore, the maximum matching contribution that the Company may allocate to each participant s account will not exceed   $11,475   for the 2013 calendar year due to the   $255,000   annual limit on eligible earnings imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. All matching contributions vest immediately. The Company s matching contributions to the Plan totaled   $234 million  ,   $231 million  , and   $239 million   in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively. 
  The Plan allows employees who meet the age requirements and reach the Plan contribution limits to make a catch-up contribution not to exceed the lesser of   75%   of their eligible compensation or the limit set forth in the Internal Revenue Code. The catch-up contributions are not eligible for matching contributions. In addition, the Plan provides for discretionary profit-sharing contributions as determined by the Board of Directors. Such contributions to the Plan are allocated among eligible participants in the proportion of their salaries to the total salaries of all participants. There were no discretionary profit-sharing contributions made in   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  . 
  The Company also sponsors other 401(k) plans that arose from acquisitions of other companies. The Company s contributions to these plans were not material to the Company on either an individual or aggregate basis for any of the fiscal years presented. 
           (i) 
    Deferred Compensation Plans 
     The Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Deferred Compensation Plan ), a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, became effective in 2007. As required by applicable law, participation in the Deferred Compensation Plan is limited to a select group of the Company s management employees. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, which is an unfunded and unsecured deferred compensation arrangement, a participant may elect to defer base salary, bonus, and/or commissions, pursuant to such rules as may be established by the Company, up to the maximum percentages for each deferral election as described in the plan. The Company may also, at its discretion, make a matching contribution to the employee under the Deferred Compensation Plan. A matching contribution equal to   4.5%   of eligible compensation in excess of the Internal Revenue Code limit for qualified plans for calendar year 2013 that is deferred by participants under the Deferred Compensation Plan (with a  $1.5 million   cap on eligible compensation) will be made to eligible participants  accounts at the end of calendar year 2013. The deferred compensation liability under the Deferred Compensation Plan, together with a deferred compensation plan assumed from Scientific-Atlanta, was approximately   $441 million   and   $355 million   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively, and was recorded primarily in other long-term liabilities.  
    115 

       Table of Contents  

(a) 
    Provision for Income Taxes 
     The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): 

Income before provision for income taxes consists of the following (in millions): 

The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes consist of the following: 

During fiscal 2013, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Company settled all outstanding items related to the audit of the Company s federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 28, 2007.  As a result of the settlement, the Company recognized a net benefit to the provision for income taxes of   $794 million  .  In addition, the American Taxpayer Relief Act reinstated the U.S. federal R D credit through December 2013, retroactive to January 1, 2012. As a result, the tax provision in fiscal 2013 included a tax benefit of   $184 million   related to the U.S. federal R D tax credit, of which   $72 million   was attributable to fiscal 2012. 
  During fiscal 2011, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit through December 31, 2011, retroactive to January 1, 2010.  As a result, the tax provision in fiscal 2011 included a tax benefit of   $234 million   related to the U.S. federal R D tax credit, of which   $65 million   was attributable to fiscal 2010. 
    116 

     Table of Contents  

U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes associated with the repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries were not provided for on a cumulative total of   $48.0   billion of undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries as of the end of fiscal 2013. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its foreign subsidiaries. If these earnings were distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, or if the shares of the relevant foreign subsidiaries were sold or otherwise transferred, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax liability related to these earnings is not practicable. 
  As a result of certain employment and capital investment actions, the Company s income in certain foreign countries is subject to reduced tax rates and in some cases is wholly exempt from taxes. A portion of these tax incentives will expire during the second half of fiscal 2015, and the majority of the remaining balance will expire at the end of fiscal 2025.  The gross income tax benefit attributable to tax incentives were estimated to be   $1.4 billion   (  $0.26   per diluted share) in fiscal 2013, of which approximately   $0.5 billion   (  $0.10   per diluted share) is based on tax incentives that will expire during the second half of fiscal 2015.  As of the end of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, the gross income tax benefits attributable to tax incentives were estimated to be   $1.3 billion   (  $0.24   per diluted share) for each of the respective years. The gross income tax benefits were partially offset by accruals of U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings. 
  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
  The aggregate changes in the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits were as follows (in millions): 

As a result of the IRS tax settlement related to the federal income tax returns for fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 28, 2007, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits was reduced by approximately   $1.0 billion  .  The Company also reduced the amount of accrued interest by   $230 million  . 
  As of July 27, 2013,   $1.5 billion   of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective tax rate if realized. During fiscal 2013, the Company recognized   $115 million   of net interest expense and   $2 million   of penalties.  During fiscal 2012, the Company recognized   $146 million   of net interest expense and   $21 million   of penalties. During fiscal 2011, the Company recognized   $38 million   of net interest expense and   $9 million   of penalties.  The Company s total accrual for interest and penalties was   $268 million  ,   $381 million  , and   $214 million   as of the end of fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax audit for returns covering tax years through fiscal 2007. With limited exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to foreign, state, or local income tax audits for returns covering tax years through fiscal 2001. 
  The Company regularly engages in discussions and negotiations with tax authorities regarding tax matters in various jurisdictions. The Company believes it is reasonably possible that certain federal, foreign, and state tax matters may be concluded in the next 12 months. Specific positions that may be resolved include issues involving transfer pricing and various other matters. The Company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at   July 27, 2013   could be reduced by approximately   $200 million   in the next 12 months.  
           (b) 
    Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 
     The following table presents the breakdown between current and noncurrent net deferred tax assets (in millions): 

117 

     Table of Contents  

   The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): 

As of   July 27, 2013  , the Company s federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were   $259 million  ,   $1.0 billion  , and   $357 million  , respectively. A significant amount of the federal net operating loss carryforwards relates to acquisitions and, as a result, is limited in the amount that can be recognized in any one year. If not utilized, the federal net operating loss will begin to expire in fiscal   2018  , and the foreign and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal   2014  . The Company has provided a valuation allowance of   $79 million   for deferred tax assets related to foreign net operating losses that are not expected to be realized. 
  As of July 27, 2013, the Company s federal, state, and foreign tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately   $7 million  ,   $640 million  , and  $13 million  , respectively. The federal and foreign tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal   2014   and   2027  , respectively.  The majority of state tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely; however, the Company has provided a valuation allowance of   $19 million   for deferred tax assets related to state tax credits that are not expected to be realized.  
    
    118 

       Table of Contents  

            16. 
    Segment Information and Major Customers  
              (a) 
    Revenue and Gross Margin by Segment 
     The Company conducts business globally and is primarily managed on a geographic basis consisting of   three   segments: the Americas; EMEA; and APJC. The Company s management makes financial decisions and allocates resources based on the information it receives from its internal management system. Sales are attributed to a segment based on the ordering location of the customer. The Company does not allocate research and development, sales and marketing, or general and administrative expenses to its segments in this internal management system because management does not include the information in its measurement of the performance of the operating segments. In addition, the Company does not allocate amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense, impacts to cost of sales from purchase accounting adjustments to inventory, charges related to asset impairments and restructurings, significant litigation settlements, and other charges to the gross margin for each segment because management does not include this information in its measurement of the performance of the operating segments.  
  Summarized financial information by segment for   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , based on the Company s internal management system and as utilized by the Company s Chief Operating Decision Maker ( CODM ), is as follows (in millions): 

Revenue in the United States, which is included in the Americas, was   $24.6 billion  ,   $22.6 billion  , and   $21.5 billion   for   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  , respectively.  
           (b) 
    Revenue for Groups of Similar Products and Services 
     The Company designs, manufactures, and sells Internet Protocol IP-based networking and other products related to the communications and IT industry, and provides services associated with these products and their use. The Company groups its products and technologies into the following categories: Switching, NGN Routing, Service Provider Video, Collaboration, Wireless, Data Center, Security, and Other Products. These products, primarily integrated by Cisco IOS Software, link geographically dispersed local-area networks (LANs), metropolitan-area networks (MANs), and wide-area networks (WANs). The Company has made certain reclassifications to the prior period amounts to conform to the current year s presentation.  
    119 

       Table of Contents  

   The following table presents revenue for groups of similar products and services (in millions): 

(c) 
    Additional Segment Information 
     The majority of the Company s assets, excluding cash and cash equivalents and investments, as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012   were attributable to its U.S. operations. The Company s total cash and cash equivalents and investments held by various foreign subsidiaries were   $40.4 billion   and   $42.5 billion   as of   July 27, 2013   and   July 28, 2012  , respectively, and the remaining   $10.2 billion   and   $6.2 billion   at the respective fiscal year ends was available in the United States. In   fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011  ,   no   single customer accounted for   10%   or more of the Company s revenue. 
  Property and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets. The following table presents property and equipment information for geographic areas (in millions): 

The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share (in millions, except per-share amounts): 

Employee equity share options, unvested shares, and similar equity instruments granted by the Company are treated as potential common shares outstanding in computing diluted earnings per share. Diluted shares outstanding include the dilutive effect of in-the-money options, unvested restricted stock, and restricted stock units. The dilutive effect of such equity awards is calculated based on the average share price for each fiscal period using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the amount the employee must pay for exercising stock options, the amount of compensation cost for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of tax benefits that would be recorded in additional paid-in capital when the award becomes deductible are collectively assumed to be used to repurchase shares.  
    
    120 

       Table of Contents  

   Supplementary Financial Data (Unaudited) 
  (in millions, except per-share amounts) 

(1)   
    In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the IRS and the Company settled all outstanding items related to the Company s federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended July 27, 2002 through July 28, 2007. As a result of the settlement, the Company recorded a net tax benefit of $794 million.  Also during the three months ended January 26, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 reinstated the U.S. federal R D tax credit, retroactive to January 1, 2012.  As a result of the credit, the Company recognized tax benefits of $184 million in fiscal 2013, of which $72 million related to fiscal 2012 R D expenses. 
       
  Stock Market Information 
  Cisco common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CSCO. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for each period indicated: 

Item 9. 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 

None. 
    121 

     Table of Contents  

Item 9A. 
    Controls and Procedures 

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  Based on our management s evaluation (with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer), as of the end of the period covered by this report, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Management s report on our internal control over financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting are set forth, respectively, on page 73 under the caption  Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and on page 72 of this report. 
  There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                   Item 9B. 
    Other Information 

None. 
    
    PART III 
    
                   Item 10. 
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

The information required by this item relating to our directors and nominees is included under the captions  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors General,    Business Experience and Qualifications of Nominees,  and   Board Committees and Meetings Nomination and Governance Committee  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  The information required by this item regarding our Audit Committee is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Board Committees and Meetings  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive officers is included under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this report. 
  The information required by this item regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Act of 1934 is included under the caption  Ownership of Securities Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer and all members of our finance department, including the principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. This code of ethics, which consists of the  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities  section of our Code of Business Conduct that applies to employees generally, is posted on our website. The Internet address for our website is   www.cisco.com  , and the code of ethics may be found from our main webpage by clicking first on  About Cisco  and then on  Corporate Governance  under  Investor Relations,  next on  Code of Business Conduct  under  Corporate Governance,  and finally on  Special Ethics Obligations for Employees with Financial Reporting Responsibilities.  
  We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of this code of ethics by posting such information on our website, on the webpage found by clicking through to  Code of Business Conduct  as specified above. 
    
    122 

       Table of Contents  

                  Item 11. 
    Executive Compensation 

The information appearing under the headings  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Director Compensation  and  Executive Compensation and Related Information  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
                   Item 12. 
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

The information required by this item relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included under the caption  Ownership of Securities,  and the information required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under the caption  Proposal No. 2: Approval of the Amendment and Restatement of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
                   Item 13. 
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 

The information required by this item relating to review, approval or ratification of transactions with related persons is included under the caption  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  and the information required by this item relating to director independence is included under the caption  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors Independent Directors,  in each case in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
                   Item 14. 
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

The information required by this item is included under the captions  Proposal No. 4: Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Principal Accountant Fees and Services  and  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    PART IV 
                   Item 15. 
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

(a) 
    1.      Financial Statements 
     See the  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  on page 71 of this report. 
    
           2. 
    Financial Statement Schedule 
     See  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts  on page 124 of this report. 
    
   See the  Index to Exhibits  immediately following the signature page of this report. 

123 

       Table of Contents  

   SCHEDULE II 
  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
  (in millions) 

Foreign exchange and other includes the impact of foreign exchange and certain immaterial reclassifications. 
    
    124 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
                       September 10, 2013 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

/S/    J  OHN   T  .   C  HAMBERS 

John T. Chambers 

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John T. Chambers and Frank A. Calderoni, jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for such person, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might do or could do in person hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his substitute, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
                      Signature 
    Title 
    Date 

/S/    J  OHN   T  .   C  HAMBERS 
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
    September 10, 2013 
      John T. Chambers 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

/S/    F  RANK   A  .   C  ALDERONI 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    September 10, 2013 
      Frank A. Calderoni 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

/S/    P  RAT   S  .   B  HATT 
    Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and  
    September 10, 2013 
      Prat S. Bhatt 
    Chief Accounting Officer 

(Principal Accounting Officer) 

/S/    C  AROL   A  .   B  ARTZ 
    Lead Independent Director 
    September 10, 2013 
      Carol A. Bartz 

Director 
      
      Marc Benioff 

/S/    G  REGORY   Q  .   B  ROWN 
    Director 
    September 10, 2013 
      Gregory Q. Brown 

/S/    M  .   M  ICHELE   B  URNS  
    Director 
    September 10, 2013 
      M. Michele Burns 

125 

       Table of Contents  

126 

       Table of Contents  

   INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

127 

       Table of Contents  

* 
    Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

128 

<EX-10.1>
 2
 exh101-ciscosystemsinc2005.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Exh. 10.1- Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.1 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  AS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
  EFFECTIVE AS OF DECEMBER 7, 2011 

SECTION 1. 
      
    INTRODUCTION 
    1 

SECTION 2. 
      
    DEFINITIONS 
    1 

(a) 
     Affiliate  
    1 

(b) 
     Award  
    1 

(c) 
     Board  
    1 

(d) 
     Cashless Exercise  
    1 

(e) 
     Cause  
    1 

(f) 
     Change In Control  
    1 

(g) 
     Code  
    1 

(h) 
     Committee  
    2 

(i) 
     Common Stock  
    2 

(j) 
     Company  
    2 

(k) 
     Consultant  
    2 

(l) 
     Corporate Transaction  
    2 

(m) 
     Covered Employees  
    2 

(n) 
     Director  
    2 

(o) 
     Disability  
    2 

(p) 
     Employee  
    2 

(q) 
     Exchange Act  
    2 

i 

(r) 
     Exercise Price  
    2 

(s) 
     Fair Market Value  
    2 

(t) 
     Fiscal Year  
    2 

(u) 
     Grant  
    2 

(v) 
     Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  
    2 

(w) 
     Key Employee  
    2 

(x) 
     Non-Employee Director  
    2 

(y) 
     Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO  
    2 

(z) 
     Option  
    2 

(aa) 
     Optionee  
    3 

(bb) 
     Parent  
    3 

(cc) 
     Participant  
    3 

(dd) 
     Performance Goal  
    3 

(ee) 
     Performance Period  
    3 

ii 

(ff) 
     Plan  
    3 

(gg) 
     Previous Plan Award  
    3 

(hh) 
     Re-Price  
    3 

(ii) 
     SAR Agreement  
    3 

(jj) 
     SEC  
    3 

(kk) 
     Section 16 Persons  
    3 

(ll) 
     Securities Act  
    3 

(mm) 
     Service  
    3 

(nn) 
     Share  
    3 

(oo) 
     Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  
    3 

(pp) 
     Stock Grant  
    3 

(qq) 
     Stock Grant Agreement  
    3 

(rr) 
     Stock Option Agreement  
    3 

(ss) 
     Stock Unit  
    3 

(tt) 
     Stock Unit Agreement  
    3 

(uu) 
     Subsidiary  
    4 

(vv) 
     10-Percent Shareholder  
    4 

SECTION 3. 
      
    ADMINISTRATION 
    4 

(a) 
    Committee Composition 
    4 

(b) 
    Authority of the Committee 
    4 

(c) 
    Indemnification 
    4 

SECTION 4. 
      
    GENERAL 
    5 

(a) 
    General Eligibility 
    5 

iii 

(b) 
    Incentive Stock Options 
    5 

(c) 
    Restrictions on Shares 
    5 

(d) 
    Beneficiaries 
    5 

(e) 
    Performance Conditions 
    5 

(f) 
    No Rights as a Shareholder 
    5 

(g) 
    Termination of Service 
    5 

(h) 
    Director Fees 
    5 

SECTION 5. 
      
    SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS 
    5 

(a) 
    Basic Limitations 
    5 

(b) 
    Additional Shares 
    6 

(c) 
    Dividend Equivalents 
    6 

(d) 
    Share Limits 
    6 

iv 

SECTION 6. 
      
    TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS 
    6 

(a) 
    Stock Option Agreement 
    6 

(b) 
    Number of Shares 
    6 

(c) 
    Exercise Price 
    6 

(d) 
    Exercisability and Term 
    6 

(e) 
    Modifications or Assumption of Options 
    6 

(f) 
    Assignment or Transfer of Options 
    6 

SECTION 7. 
      
    PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES 
    7 

SECTION 8. 
      
    TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS 
    7 

(a) 
    SAR Agreement 
    7 

(b) 
    Number of Shares 
    7 

(c) 
    Exercise Price 
    7 

(d) 
    Exercisability and Term 
    7 

(e) 
    Exercise of SARs 
    7 

(f) 
    Modification or Assumption of SARs 
    7 

(g) 
    Assignment or Transfer of SARs 
    8 

SECTION 9. 
      
    TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS 
    8 

(a) 
    Amount and Form of Awards 
    8 

v 

(b) 
    Stock Grant Agreement 
    8 

(c) 
    Payment for Stock Grants 
    8 

(d) 
    Vesting Conditions 
    8 

(e) 
    Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants 
    8 

(f) 
    Voting and Dividend Rights 
    8 

(g) 
    Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants 
    8 

SECTION 10. 
      
    TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS 
    9 

(a) 
    Stock Unit Agreement 
    9 

(b) 
    Number of Shares 
    9 

(c) 
    Payment for Stock Units 
    9 

(d) 
    Vesting Conditions 
    9 

(e) 
    Voting and Dividend Rights 
    9 

(f) 
    Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units 
    9 

(g) 
    Creditors  Rights 
    9 

(h) 
    Modification or Assumption of Stock Units 
    9 

(i) 
    Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units 
    9 

vi 

vii 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  AS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
    
  (Effective as of December  7, 2011) 
     SECTION 1.     INTRODUCTION . 
  The Company's shareholders approved the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated and effective on November 12, 2009.  The Company's Board of Directors approved an amendment and restatement of the Plan; provided that, the amendment and restatement of the Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders.  If the Company's shareholders do not approve the amendment and restatement of the Plan, Awards will be made under the Plan as approved by shareholders on November 12, 2009. 
  The purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term success of the Company and the creation of shareholder value by offering Key Employees an opportunity to share in such long-term success by acquiring a proprietary interest in the Company. 
  The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for discretionary long-term incentive Awards in the form of Options (which may constitute Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options), Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Grants, and Stock Units. 
  The Plan shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California (except its choice-of-law provisions). 
  Capitalized terms shall have the meaning provided in Section 2 unless otherwise provided in this Plan or any related Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement. 
     SECTION 2.     DEFINITIONS     . 
     (a)  Affiliate  means any entity other than a Subsidiary, if the Company and/or one or more Subsidiaries own not less than 50% of such entity. 
     (b)  Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan. 
     (c)  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time. 
     (d)  Cashless Exercise  means, to the extent that a Stock Option Agreement so provides and as permitted by applicable law, a program approved by the Committee in which payment may be made all or in part by delivery (on a form prescribed by the Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker to sell Shares and to deliver all or part of the sale proceeds to the Company in payment of the aggregate Exercise Price and, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal and state income taxes, payroll taxes, and foreign taxes, if applicable. 
     (e)  Cause  means, except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, a conviction of a Participant for a felony crime or the failure of a Participant to contest prosecution for a felony crime, or a Participant s misconduct, fraud or dishonesty (as such terms are defined by the Committee in its sole discretion), or any unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or trade secrets, in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive and binding. 
     (f)  Change In Control  except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following: 
  (i) A change in the composition of the Board over a period of thirty-six consecutive months or less such that a majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board approved such election or nomination; or 
  (ii) The acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of securities of the Company representing more than 35% of the total combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders accept. 
     (g)  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and interpretations promulgated thereunder. 
     (h)  Committee  means a committee described in Section 3. 
     (i)  Common Stock  means the Company s common stock. 
     (j)  Company  means Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation. 
    1 

(k)  Consultant  means an individual who performs bona fide services to the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, other than as an Employee or Director or Non-Employee Director. 
     (l)  Corporate Transaction  except as may otherwise be provided in a Participant s employment agreement or Award agreement, means the occurrence of any of the following shareholder approved transactions: 
  (i) The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with or into another entity or any other corporate reorganization, if more than 50% of the combined voting power of the continuing or surviving entity s securities outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or other reorganization is owned by persons who were not shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or other reorganization; or 
  (ii) The sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the Company s assets. 
  A transaction shall not constitute a Corporate Transaction if its sole purpose is to change the state of the Company s incorporation or to create a holding company that will be owned in substantially the same proportions by the persons who held the Company s securities immediately before such transactions. 
     (m)  Covered Employees  means those persons who are subject to the limitations of Code Section 162(m). 
     (n)  Director  means a member of the Board who is also an Employee. 
     (o)  Disability  means that the Key Employee is classified as disabled under a long-term disability policy of the Company or, if no such policy applies, the Key Employee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. 
     (p)  Employee  means an individual who is a common-law employee of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. 
     (q)  Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
     (r)  Exercise Price  means, in the case of an Option, the amount for which a Share may be purchased upon exercise of such Option, as specified in the applicable Stock Option Agreement.  Exercise Price,  in the case of a SAR, means an amount, as specified in the applicable SAR Agreement, which is subtracted from the Fair Market Value in determining the amount payable upon exercise of such SAR. 
     (s)  Fair Market Value  means the market price of a Share as determined in good faith by the Committee. The Fair Market Value shall be determined by the following: 
  (i) If the Shares were traded over-the-counter or listed with NASDAQ on the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be equal to the last transaction price quoted by the NASDAQ system for the date in question or (ii) if the Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange on the date in question, the Fair Market Value is the closing selling price for the Common Stock as such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on the exchange determined by the Committee to be the primary market for the Common Stock for the date in question; provided, however, that if there is no such reported price for the Common Stock for the date in question under (i) or (ii), then such price on the last preceding date for which such price exists shall be determinative of Fair Market Value. 
  If neither (i) or (ii) are applicable, then the Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in good faith on such basis as it deems appropriate. 
  Whenever possible, the determination of Fair Market Value by the Committee shall be based on the prices reported in the Western Edition of   The Wall Street Journal   . Such determination shall be conclusive and binding on all persons. 
     (t)  Fiscal Year  means the Company s fiscal year. 
     (u)  Grant  means any grant of an Award under the Plan. 
     (v)  Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an incentive stock option described in Code Section 422. 
     (w)  Key Employee  means an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director or Consultant who has been selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan. 
     (x)  Non-Employee Director  means a member of the Board who is not an Employee. 
     (y)  Nonstatutory Stock Option  or  NSO  means a stock option that is not an ISO. 
     (z)  Option  means an ISO or NSO granted under the Plan entitling the Optionee to purchase Shares. 
     (aa)  Optionee  means an individual, estate or other entity that holds an Option. 
     (bb)  Parent  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the Company owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Parent on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Parent commencing as of such date. 
     (cc)  Participant  means an individual or estate or other entity that holds an Award. 
    2 

(dd)  Performance Goal      means an objective formula or standard determined by the Committee with respect to each Performance Period utilizing one or more of the following factors and any objectively verifiable adjustment(s) thereto permitted and preestablished by the Committee in accordance with Code Section 162(m): (i) operating income, operating cash flow and operating expense; (ii) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; (iii) earnings; (iv) cash flow; (v) market share; (vi) sales; (vii) revenue; (viii) profits before interest and taxes; (ix) expenses; (x) cost of goods sold; (xi) profit/loss or profit margin; (xii) working capital; (xiii) return on capital, equity or assets; (xiv) earnings per share; (xv) economic value added; (xvi) stock price; (xvii) price/earnings ratio; (xviii) debt or debt-to-equity; (xix) accounts receivable; (xx) writeoffs; (xxi) cash; (xxii) assets; (xxiii) liquidity; (xxiv) operations; (xxv) intellectual property (e.g., patents); (xxvi) product development; (xxvii) regulatory activity; (xxviii) manufacturing, production or inventory; (xxix) mergers and acquisitions or divestitures;     (xxx) financings; (xxxi) customer satisfaction; and/or (xxxii) total shareholder return, each with respect to the Company and/or one or more of its affiliates or operating units.  Awards issued to persons who are not Covered Employees may take into account other factors (including subjective factors). 
     (ee)  Performance Period  means any period not exceeding 36 months as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion. The Committee may establish different Performance Periods for different Participants, and the Committee may establish concurrent or overlapping Performance Periods. 
     (ff)  Plan  means this Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan as amended and restated, and as it may be further amended from time to time. 
     (gg)  Previous Plan Award  means any award of an Option, SAR, Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, the Cisco Systems, Inc. SA Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Cisco Systems, Inc. WebEx Acquisition Long-Term Incentive Plan. 
     (hh)  Re-Price  means that the Company has lowered or reduced the Exercise Price of outstanding Options and/or outstanding SARs for any Participant(s), whether through amendment, cancellation, or replacement grants, or any other means. 
     (ii)  SAR Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 8 evidencing each Award of a Stock Appreciation Right. 
    (jj)  SEC  means the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
     (kk)  Section 16 Persons  means those officers, directors or other persons who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 
     (ll)  Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
     (mm)  Service  means service as an Employee, Director, Non-Employee Director or Consultant. A Participant s Service does not terminate when continued service crediting is required by applicable law. However, for purposes of determining whether an Option is entitled to continuing ISO status, a common-law employee s Service will be treated as terminating ninety (90) days after such Employee went on leave, unless such Employee s right to return to active work is guaranteed by law or by a contract. Service terminates in any event when the approved leave ends, unless such Employee immediately returns to active work. The Committee determines which leaves count toward Service, and when Service terminates for all purposes under the Plan. Further, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant provides service to the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate, or a transfer between entities (the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate); provided that there is no interruption or other termination of Service. 
     (nn)  Share  means one share of Common Stock. 
     (oo)  Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means a stock appreciation right awarded under the Plan. 
     (pp)  Stock Grant  means Shares awarded under the Plan. 
     (qq)  Stock Grant Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 9 evidencing each Award of a Stock Grant. 
     (rr)  Stock Option Agreement  means the agreement described in Section 6 evidencing each Award of an Option. 
     (ss)  Stock Unit  means a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent of one Share, as awarded under the Plan. 
     (tt)  Stock Unit Agreement  means the agreement described in Section  10 evidencing each Award of a Stock Unit. 
     (uu)  Subsidiary  means any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company, if each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain. A corporation that attains the status of a Subsidiary on a date after the adoption of the Plan shall be considered a Subsidiary commencing as of such date. 
     (vv)  10-Percent Shareholder  means an individual who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company, its Parent or any of its Subsidiaries. In determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall be applied. 
     SECTION 3.     ADMINISTRATION     . 
     (a) Committee Composition. The Board or a Committee appointed by the Board shall administer the Plan. Unless the Board provides otherwise, the Company s Compensation   Management Development Committee shall be the Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and shall be subject to removal by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of the Committee and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to the Committee. 
    3 

The Committee shall have membership composition which enables (i) Awards to Section 16 Persons to qualify as exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and (ii) Awards to Covered Employees to qualify as performance-based compensation as provided under Code Section 162(m). 
  The Board may also appoint one or more separate committees of the Board, each composed of two or more directors of the Company who need not qualify under Rule 16b-3 or Code Section 162(m), that may administer the Plan with respect to Key Employees who are not Section 16 Persons or Covered Employees, respectively, may grant Awards under the Plan to such Key Employees and may determine all terms of such Awards. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board shall constitute the Committee and shall administer the Plan with respect to Non-Employee Directors, shall grant Awards under the Plan to such Non-Employee Directors, and shall determine all terms of such Awards. 
     (b) Authority of the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full authority and sole discretion to take any actions it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Such actions shall include: 
  (i) selecting Key Employees who are to receive Awards under the Plan; 
  (ii) determining the type, number, vesting requirements and other features and conditions of such Awards and amending such Awards; 
  (iii) correcting any defect, supplying any omission, or reconciling any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award agreement; 
  (iv) accelerating the vesting, or extending the post-termination exercise term, of Awards at any time and under such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate; 
  (v) interpreting the Plan; 
  (vi) making all other decisions relating to the operation of the Plan; and 
  (vii) adopting such plans or subplans as may be deemed necessary or appropriate to provide for the participation by Key Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates who reside outside the U.S., which plans and/or subplans shall be attached hereto as Appendices. 
    
  The Committee may adopt such rules or guidelines as it deems appropriate to implement the Plan. The Committee s determinations under the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons. 
     (c) Indemnification. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, each member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (i) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Stock Option Agreement, SAR Agreement, Stock Grant Agreement or Stock Unit Agreement, and (ii) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless. 
      
    4 

SECTION 4.     GENERAL     . 
     (a) General Eligibility. Only Employees, Directors, Non-Employee Directors and Consultants shall be eligible for designation as Key Employees by the Committee, in its sole discretion. 
     (b) Incentive Stock Options. Only Key Employees who are common-law employees of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary shall be eligible for the grant of ISOs. In addition, a Key Employee who is a 10-Percent Shareholder shall not be eligible for the grant of an ISO unless the requirements set forth in Section 422(c)(5) of the Code are satisfied. 
     (c) Restrictions on Shares. Any Shares issued pursuant to an Award shall be subject to such rights of repurchase, rights of first refusal and other transfer restrictions as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Such restrictions shall apply in addition to any restrictions that may apply to holders of Shares generally and shall also comply to the extent necessary with applicable law. In no event shall the Company be required to issue fractional Shares under this Plan. 
     (d) Beneficiaries. Unless stated otherwise in an Award agreement, a Participant may designate one or more beneficiaries with respect to an Award by timely filing the prescribed form with the Company. A beneficiary designation may be changed by filing the prescribed form with the Company at any time before the Participant s death. If no beneficiary was designated or if no designated beneficiary survives the Participant, then after a Participant s death any vested Award(s) shall be transferred or distributed to the Participant s estate. 
     (e) Performance Conditions. The Committee may, in its discretion, include performance conditions in an Award or grant an Award upon the satisfaction of performance conditions. If performance conditions are included in Awards to Covered Employees, then such Awards may be subject to the achievement of Performance Goals established by the Committee. Such Performance Goals shall be established and administered pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 162(m). Before any Shares underlying an Award or any Award payments subject to Performance Goals are released to a Covered Employee with respect to a Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing that the Performance Goals for such Performance Period have been satisfied. Awards with performance conditions that are granted to Key Employees who are not Covered Employees need not comply with the requirements of Code Section 162(m). 
     (f) No Rights as a Shareholder. A Participant, or a transferee of a Participant, shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Common Stock covered by an Award until such person has satisfied all of the terms and conditions to receive such Common Stock, has satisfied any applicable withholding or tax obligations relating to the Award and the Shares have been issued (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). 
     (g) Termination of Service. Unless the applicable Award agreement or, with respect to Participants who reside in the U.S., the applicable employment agreement provides otherwise, the following rules shall govern the vesting, exercisability and term of outstanding Awards held by a Participant in the event of termination of such Participant s Service (in all cases subject to the expiration term of the Option or SAR as applicable): (i) upon termination of Service for any reason, all unvested portions of any outstanding Awards shall be immediately forfeited without consideration and the vested portions of any outstanding Stock Units shall be settled upon termination; (ii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for Cause, then all unexercised Options and SARs, unvested portions of Stock Units and unvested portions of Stock Grants shall terminate and be forfeited immediately without consideration; (iii) if the Service of a Participant is terminated for any reason other than for Cause, death, or Disability, then the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised by such Participant or his or her personal representative within three months after the date of such termination; or (iv) if the Service of a Participant is terminated due to death or Disability, the vested portion of his or her then-outstanding Options and/or SARs may be exercised within eighteen months after the date of termination of Service. 
     (h) Director Fees. Each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive a Stock Grant or Stock Unit under the Plan in lieu of payment of a portion of his or her regular annual retainer based on the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date any regular annual retainer would otherwise be paid. For purposes of the Plan, a Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer shall not include any additional retainer paid in connection with service on any committee of the Board or paid for any other reason. Such an election may be for any dollar or percentage amount equal to at least 25% of the Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer (up to a limit of 100% of the Non-Employee Director s regular annual retainer). The election must be made prior to the beginning of the annual board of directors cycle which shall be any twelve month continuous period designated by the Board. Any amount of the regular annual retainer not elected to be received as a Stock Grant or Stock Unit shall be payable in cash in accordance with the Company s standard payment procedures. Shares granted under this Section 4(h) shall otherwise be subject to the terms of the Plan applicable to Non-Employee Directors or to Participants generally (other than provisions specifically applying only to Employees). 
     SECTION 5.     SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN AND SHARE LIMITS     . 
     (a) Basic Limitations.   The stock issuable under the Plan shall be authorized but unissued Shares.  The aggregate number of Shares reserved for Awards under the Plan shall not exceed 559,000,000 Shares, subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11.  Shares issued as Stock Grants, pursuant to Stock Units or pursuant to the settlement of dividend equivalents will count against the Shares available for issuance under the Plan as 1.5 Shares for every 1 Share issued in connection with the Award or dividend equivalent. 
    (b) Additional Shares. If Awards are forfeited or are terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Awards, plus the number of additional Shares, if any, that counted against Shares available for issuance under the Plan in respect thereof at the time of Grant, shall again become available for Awards under the Plan. If a Previous Plan Award is forfeited or is terminated for any other reason before being exercised or settled, then the Shares underlying such Previous Plan Award shall again become available for Awards under this Plan. SARs shall be counted in full against the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares issued upon settlement of the SARs. 
    5 

(c) Dividend Equivalents.   Any dividend equivalents settled in Shares under the Plan shall be applied against the number of Shares available for Awards. 
     (d) Share Limits. 
  (i) Limits on Options . Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Options to purchase Shares during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with ISOs shall be 559,000,000 Shares. 
  (ii) Limits on SARs. Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Awards of SARs during any Fiscal Year covering in excess of 5,000,000 Shares and the aggregate maximum number of Shares that may be issued in connection with SARs shall be 559,000,000 Shares.    
  (iii) Limits on Stock Grants and Stock Units. Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Key Employee shall receive Stock Grants or Stock Units during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 5,000,000 Shares. 
  (iv) Limits on Awards to Non-Employee Directors. Subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11, no Non-Employee Director shall receive Awards during any Fiscal Year covering, in the aggregate, in excess of 50,000 Shares; provided that any Shares received pursuant to an election under Section 4(h) shall not count against such limit. 
     SECTION 6.     TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS     . 
     (a) Stock Option Agreement. Each Grant of an Option under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Option Agreement between the Optionee and the Company. Such Option shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a Stock Option Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Option Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is an ISO or an NSO. 
     (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the number of Shares that are subject to the Option and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11. 
     (c) Exercise Price. An Option s Exercise Price shall be established by the Committee and set forth in a Stock Option Agreement. The Exercise Price of an Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value (110% for ISO grants to 10-Percent Shareholders) on the date of Grant. 
     (d) Exercisability and Term. Each Stock Option Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the Option is to become exercisable. The Stock Option Agreement shall also specify the term of the Option; provided that the term of an Option shall in no event exceed ten years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable Stock Option Agreement provides otherwise, each Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Option upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the Option shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the Option shall be ten years from the date of Grant. A Stock Option Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Option can be exercised after the expiration date provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and no Option may provide that, upon exercise of the Option, a new Option will automatically be granted. 
    
     (e) Modifications or Assumption of Options. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding options or may accept the cancellation of outstanding options (whether granted by the Company or by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Options for the same or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding Options unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and, unless a modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule, such modification of an Option shall not, without the consent of the Optionee, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Option. 
     (f) Assignment or Transfer of Options. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no Option shall be transferable by the Optionee other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Stock Option Agreement, an Option may be exercised during the lifetime  
  of the Optionee only by the Optionee or by the guardian or legal representative of the Optionee. No Option or interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Optionee during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process. 
     SECTION 7.     PAYMENT FOR OPTION SHARES     . 
  The entire Exercise Price of Shares issued upon exercise of Options shall be payable in cash at the time when such Shares are purchased, except as follows and if so provided for in an applicable Stock Option Agreement: 
    6 

(i) Surrender of Stock. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price or Options may be made with Shares which have already been owned by the Optionee; provided that the Committee may, in its sole discretion, require that Shares tendered for payment be previously held by the Optionee for a minimum duration. Such Shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value. 
  (ii) Cashless Exercise. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made through Cashless Exercise at the Committee s sole discretion. 
  (iii) Other Forms of Payment. Payment for all or any part of the Exercise Price may be made in any other form that is consistent with applicable laws, regulations and rules and approved by the Committee. 
  In the case of an ISO granted under the Plan, payment shall be made only pursuant to the express provisions of the applicable Stock Option Agreement. The Stock Option Agreement may specify that payment may be made in any form(s) described in this Section 7. In the case of an NSO granted under the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion at any time, accept payment in any form(s) described in this Section 7. 
     SECTION 8.     TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS     . 
     (a) SAR Agreement. Each Grant of a SAR under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a SAR Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such SAR shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in a SAR Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). A SAR Agreement may provide for a maximum limit on the amount of any payout notwithstanding the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of the SAR. The provisions of the various SAR Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. SARs may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s compensation. 
     (b) Number of Shares. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the SAR pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11. 
     (c) Exercise Price. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the Exercise Price which shall be established by the Committee. The Exercise Price of a SAR shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of Grant. 
     (d) Exercisability and Term. Each SAR Agreement shall specify the date when all or any installment of the SAR is to become exercisable. The SAR Agreement shall also specify the term of the SAR which shall not exceed ten years from the date of Grant. Unless the applicable SAR Agreement provides otherwise, each SAR shall vest and become exercisable with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the SAR upon completion of one year of Service measured from the vesting commencement date, the balance of the Shares subject to the SAR shall vest and become exercisable in forty-eight equal installments upon completion of each month of Service thereafter, and the term of the SAR shall be ten years from the date of Grant. A SAR Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. SARs may be awarded in combination with Options or Stock Grants, and such an Award shall provide that the SARs will not be exercisable unless the related Options or Stock Grants are forfeited. A SAR may be included in an ISO only at the time of Grant but may be included in an NSO at the time of Grant or at any subsequent time, but not later than six months before the expiration of such NSO. No SAR may provide that, upon exercise of the SAR, a new SAR will automatically be granted. 
     (e) Exercise of SARs. If, on the date when a SAR expires, the Exercise Price under such SAR is less than the Fair Market Value on such date but any portion of such SAR has not been exercised or surrendered, then such SAR shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion. Upon exercise of a SAR, the Participant (or any person having the right to exercise the SAR) shall receive from the Company (i) Shares, (ii) cash or (iii) any combination of Shares and cash, as the Committee shall determine at the time of Grant of the SAR, in its sole discretion. The amount of cash and/or the Fair Market Value of Shares received upon exercise of SARs shall, in the aggregate, be equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value (on the date of exercise) of the Shares subject to the SARs exceeds the Exercise Price of those Shares. 
     (f) Modification or Assumption of SARs. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify, extend or assume outstanding stock appreciation rights or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock appreciation rights (including stock appreciation rights granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new SARs for the same or a different number of Shares, at the same or a different Exercise Price, and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not Re-Price outstanding SARs unless there is approval by the Company shareholders and, unless a modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule, such modification of a SAR shall not   ,   without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such SAR. 
     (g) Assignment or Transfer of SARs. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, no SAR shall be transferable by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise provided in the applicable SAR Agreement, a SAR may be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or by the guardian or legal representative of the Participant. No SAR or interest therein may be assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the Participant during his or her lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process. 
     SECTION 9.     TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR STOCK GRANTS     . 
    7 

(a) Amount and Form of Awards. Awards under this Section 9 may be granted in the form of a Stock Grant. Each Stock Grant Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11. A Stock Grant may also be awarded in combination with NSOs, and such an Award may provide that the Stock Grant will be forfeited in the event that the related NSOs are exercised.  
    (b) Stock Grant Agreement. Each Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Grant Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Each Stock Grant shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Grant Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. 
     (c) Payment for Stock Grants. Stock Grants may be issued with or without cash consideration or any other form of legally permissible consideration approved by the Committee. 
     (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Stock Grant may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Grant Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Grant Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Grant shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Grant upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Grant Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. 
     (e) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Grants. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Grant Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this Section 9(e) shall be void. However, this Section 9(e) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested outstanding Stock Grant Awards in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Grant Awards by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. 
     (f) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holder of a Stock Grant awarded under the Plan shall have the same voting, dividend and other rights as the Company s other shareholders. A Stock Grant Agreement, however, may require that the holder of such Stock Grant invest any cash dividends received in additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Grant with respect to which the dividends were paid. Such additional Shares subject to the Stock Grant shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under Section 5. 
     (g) Modification or Assumption of Stock Grants. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock grants or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock grants (including stock granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Grants for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not modify an outstanding Stock Grant such that the modification shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Grant, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule.  
    8 

SECTION 10.     TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF STOCK UNITS     .    
     (a) Stock Unit Agreement. Each grant of Stock Units under the Plan shall be evidenced and governed exclusively by a Stock Unit Agreement between the Participant and the Company. Such Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and may be subject to any other terms and conditions that are not inconsistent with the Plan and that the Committee deems appropriate for inclusion in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement (including without limitation any performance conditions). The provisions of the various Stock Unit Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical. Stock Units may be granted in consideration of a reduction in the Participant s other compensation. 
     (b) Number of Shares. Each Stock Unit Agreement shall specify the number of Shares to which the Stock Unit Grant pertains and shall be subject to adjustment of such number in accordance with Section 11. 
     (c) Payment for Stock Units. Stock Units shall be issued without consideration. 
     (d) Vesting Conditions. Each Award of Stock Units may or may not be subject to vesting. Any such vesting provision may provide that Shares shall vest based on Service over time or shall vest, in full or in installments, upon satisfaction of performance conditions specified in the Stock Unit Agreement which may include Performance Goals pursuant to Section 4(e). Unless the applicable Stock Unit Agreement provides otherwise, each Stock Unit shall vest with respect to 20% of the Shares subject to the Stock Unit upon completion of each year of Service on each of the first through fifth annual anniversaries of the vesting commencement date. A Stock Unit Agreement may provide for accelerated vesting in the event of the Participant s death, Disability, or other events. 
     (e) Voting and Dividend Rights. The holders of Stock Units shall have no voting rights. Prior to settlement or forfeiture, any Stock Unit awarded under the Plan may, at the Committee s discretion, carry with it a right to dividend equivalents. Such right entitles the holder to be credited with an amount equal to all cash dividends paid on one Share while the Stock Unit is outstanding. Dividend equivalents may be converted into additional Stock Units. Settlement of dividend equivalents may be made in the form of cash, in the form of Shares, or in a combination of both. Prior to distribution, any dividend equivalents which are not paid shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as the Stock Units to which they attach. 
     (f) Form and Time of Settlement of Stock Units. Settlement of vested Stock Units may be made in the form of (a) cash, (b) Shares or (c) any combination of both, as determined by the Committee at the time of the grant of the Stock Units, in its sole discretion. Methods of converting Stock Units into cash may include (without limitation) a method based on the average Fair Market Value of Shares over a series of trading days. Vested Stock Units may be settled in a lump sum or in installments. The distribution may occur or commence when the vesting conditions applicable to the Stock Units have been satisfied or have lapsed, or it may be deferred, in accordance with applicable law, to any later date. The amount of a deferred distribution may be increased by an interest factor or by dividend equivalents. Until an Award of Stock Units is settled, the number of such Stock Units shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 11. 
     (g) Creditors  Rights. A holder of Stock Units shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Stock Unit Agreement. 
   (h) Modification or Assumption of Stock Units. Within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may modify or assume outstanding stock units or may accept the cancellation of outstanding stock units (including stock units granted by another issuer) in return for the grant of new Stock Units for the same or a different number of Shares and with the same or different vesting provisions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence or anything to the contrary herein, the Committee may not modify an outstanding Stock Unit such that the modification shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair his or her rights or obligations under such Stock Unit, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule. 
   (i) Assignment or Transfer of Stock Units. Except as provided in the applicable Stock Unit Agreement, and then only to the extent permitted by applicable law, Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily, involuntarily or by operation of law. Any act in violation of this Section 10(i) shall be void. However, this Section 10(i) shall not preclude a Participant from designating a beneficiary who will receive any outstanding vested Stock Units in the event of the Participant s death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Stock Units by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. 
   SECTION 11.     PROTECTION AGAINST DILUTION     . 
   (a) Adjustments. In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to the following: 
  (i) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities available for future Awards under Section 5; 
  (ii) the limits on Awards specified in Section 5; 
    
  (iii) the number of Shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by each outstanding Award; or 
  (iv) the Exercise Price under each outstanding SAR or Option. 
    9 

(b) Participant Rights. Except as provided in this Section 11, a Participant shall have no rights by reason of any issue by the Company of stock of any class or securities convertible into stock of any class, any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of any class, the payment of any stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of stock of any class. If by reason of an adjustment pursuant to this Section 11 a Participant s Award covers additional or different shares of stock or securities, then such additional or different shares and the Award in respect thereof shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions which were applicable to the Award and the Shares subject to the Award prior to such adjustment. 
   (c) Fractional Shares. Any adjustment of Shares pursuant to this Section 11 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number of Shares. Under no circumstances shall the Company be required to authorize or issue fractional shares and no consideration shall be provided as a result of any fractional shares not being issued or authorized. 
   SECTION 12.     EFFECT OF A CORPORATE TRANSACTION     . 
   (a) Corporate Transaction. In the event that the Company is a party to a Corporate Transaction, outstanding Awards shall be subject to the applicable agreement of merger, reorganization, or sale of assets. Such agreement may provide, without limitation, for the assumption or substitution of outstanding Options, SARs, or Stock Units by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the assumption of outstanding Stock Grant Agreements by the surviving corporation or its parent, for the replacement of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units with a cash incentive program of the surviving corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested portions of such outstanding Awards at the time of the transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the same vesting provisions applicable to those Awards, for accelerated vesting of outstanding Awards, or for the cancellation of outstanding Options, SARs, and Stock Units, with or without consideration, in all cases without the consent of the Participant. 
   (b) Acceleration. The Committee may determine, at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter, that such Award shall become fully vested as to all Shares subject to such Award in the event that a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control occurs. Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award agreement, in the event that a Corporate Transaction occurs and any outstanding Options, SARs or Stock Units are not assumed, substituted, or replaced with a cash incentive program pursuant to Section 12(a) or any outstanding Stock Grant Agreements are not assumed pursuant to Section 12(a), then such Awards shall fully vest and be fully exercisable immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction. Immediately following the consummation of a Corporate Transaction, all outstanding Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent that they are assumed by the surviving corporation or its parent. 
   (c) Dissolution. To the extent not previously exercised or settled, Options, SARs and Stock Units shall terminate immediately prior to the dissolution or liquidation of the Company. 
   SECTION 13.     LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS     . 
   (a) No Entitlements. A Participant s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with any Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit the individual to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards. Any Award granted hereunder is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of a Participant s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a Participant s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain an employee, consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of any person at any time, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and such terminated person shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
   (b) Shareholders  Rights. A Participant shall have no dividend rights, voting rights or other rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to the issuance of such Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company). No adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such Shares are issued, except as expressly provided in Section 11. 
   (c) Regulatory Requirements. Any other provision of the Plan notwithstanding, the obligation of the Company to issue Shares or other securities under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and such approval by any regulatory body as may be required. The Company reserves the right to restrict, in whole or in part, the delivery of Shares or other securities pursuant to any Award prior to the satisfaction of all legal requirements relating to the issuance of such Shares or other securities, to     their registration, qualification or listing or to an exemption from registration, qualification or listing. 
   SECTION 14.     WITHHOLDING TAXES     . 
   (a) General. A Participant shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with his or her Award. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares or make any cash payment under the Plan until such obligations are satisfied. 
    10 

(b) Share Withholding. If a public market for the Company s Shares exists, the Committee may permit a Participant to satisfy all or part of his or her withholding or income tax obligations by having the Company withhold all or a portion of any Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her or by surrendering or attesting to all or a portion of any Shares that he or she previously acquired. Such Shares shall be valued based on the value of the actual trade or, if there is none, the Fair Market Value as of the previous day. Any payment of taxes by assigning Shares to the Company may be subject to restrictions, including, but not limited to, any restrictions required by rules of the SEC. The Committee may, in its discretion, also permit a Participant to satisfy withholding or income tax obligations related to an Award through Cashless Exercise or through a sale of Shares underlying the Award. 
   SECTION 15.     DURATION AND AMENDMENTS     . 
   (a) Term of the Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by Company shareholders. The Plan shall terminate at the Company s 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and may be terminated on any earlier date pursuant to this Section 15. 
   (b) Right to Amend or Terminate the Plan. The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The termination of the Plan, or any amendment thereof, shall not impair the rights or obligations of any Participant under any Award previously granted under the Plan without the Participant s consent, unless such modification is necessary or desirable to comply with any applicable law, regulation or rule. No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the Plan s termination. An amendment of the Plan shall be subject to the approval of the Company s shareholders only to the extent such approval is otherwise required by applicable laws, regulations or rules. 
    
   SECTION 16.     EXECUTION     . 
  To record the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this Plan on behalf of the Company. 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

By: 

Mark Chandler 
      Title: 
      
    Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary 

11 

(For Grants Prior to September 2008) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION 
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock: 
  Optionee:                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                      

Type of Option: 
      
               Incentive Stock Option 

Nonstatutory Stock Option 

Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                               
  Number of Option Shares:                                                                                                                                                                     shares 
  Exercise Price: $                  per share 
  Vesting Commencement Date:                                                                                                                                                                         
  Expiration Date:                                                                                                                                                                               
  Exercise Schedule 
  The Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Option Shares upon Optionee s completion of one (1) year of Service measured from the Vesting Commencement Date and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in a series of forty-eight (48) successive equal monthly installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional month of Service over the forty-eight (48)-month period measured from the first annual anniversary of the Vesting Commencement Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service. 
  Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then the Committee shall have the right, to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term. The decision whether or not to approve Optionee s request for any reduced work commitment shall be at the sole discretion of the Company. In no event shall any extension of the Exercise Schedule for the Option Shares result in the extension of the Expiration Date of the Option. 
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto. 
  No Employment or Service Contract   . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause. 
  Definitions   . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan. 

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Recitals 
  A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary). 
  B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee. 
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan. 
  NOW, THEREFORE   , it is hereby agreed as follows: 
  1.     Grant of Option   . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice. 
  2.     Option Term   . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6. 
  3.     Non-Transferability   . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution. 
  4.     Dates of Exercise   . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1. 
  5.     Cessation of Service   . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable: 
  (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. 
  (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18)- month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date. 
  (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. 
  (iv) Optionee s date of cessation of Service shall mean the date upon which Optionee ceases active performance of services for the Company following the provision of such notification of termination or resignation from Service and shall be determined solely by this Agreement and without reference to any other agreement, written or oral, including Optionee s contract of employment, and shall not otherwise include any period of notice of termination of employment, whether expressed or implied. 
  (v) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the time of Optionee s cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately upon Optionee s cessation of Service for any reason, terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable. 
    1 

(vi) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while this Option is outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service with the Company is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period. 
    
  6.     Special Acceleration of Option 
  (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. 
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
    
  7.     Adjustment in Option Shares   . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder. 
  8.     Shareholder Rights   . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares. 
  9.     Manner of Exercising Option   . 
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions: 
  (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms: 
  (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; 
  (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction; and 
  (C) a promissory note payable to the Company, but only to the extent authorized by the Committee in accordance with Paragraph 13. 
    2 

(ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option. 
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise. 
    
  (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions. 
  (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares. 
  (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee: 
  (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and 
  (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness. 
  10.     Compliance with Laws and Regulations   . 
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance. 
  (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals. 
  11.     Successors and Assigns   . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate. 
  12.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
    
  13.     Financing   . The Committee may, in its absolute discretion and without any obligation to do so, permit Optionee to pay the Exercise Price for the purchased Option Shares by delivering a full-recourse promissory note payable to the Company. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate, the requirements for collateral and the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Committee in its sole discretion. 
  14.     Construction   . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option. 
  15.     Governing Law   . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  16.     Excess Shares   . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules. 
  17.     Additional Terms Applicable to an Incentive Stock Options   . In the event this Option is designated an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice, the following terms and conditions shall also apply to the Option: 
    3 

(a) This Option shall cease to qualify for favorable tax treatment as an Incentive Stock Option if (and to the extent) this Option is exercised for one or more Option Shares: (A) more than three (3) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee for any reason other than death or Disability or (B) more than twelve (12) months after the date Optionee ceases to be an Employee by reason of Disability. 
  (b) Even if this Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option, if the Shares subject to this Option (and all other Incentive Stock Options granted to Optionee by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, including under other plans of the Company) that first become exercisable in any calendar year have an aggregate Fair Market Value (determined for each Share as of the date of grant of the option covering such Share) in excess of $100,000, the Shares in excess of $100,000 shall be treated as subject to a Nonstatutory Stock Option in accordance all applicable laws, regulations and rules. 
    
  18.     Leave of Absence   .   Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the following provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence: 
  (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave. 
  (b) If the Option is designated as an Incentive Stock Option in the Notice and if the leave of absence continues for more than ninety (90) days, then this Option shall automatically convert to a Nonstatutory Stock Option at the end of the three (3)-month period measured from the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave, unless the Optionee s right to return to active work is guaranteed by law or by a contract. 
  (c) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term. 
  19.     Further Instruments   . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement. 
  20.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) Optionee hereby authorizes and directs Optionee s employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding Optionee s employment, the nature and amount of Optionee s compensation and the fact and conditions of Optionee s participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the exercise of Options under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired upon exercise of this Option or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. Optionee acknowledges that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of Optionee s residence. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges and understands that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for Optionee s participation in the Plan. 
  (b) Optionee may at any time withdraw the consents herein, by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to exercise or realize benefits from the Option, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. 
  21.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee. This Option is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a Optionee s salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Option or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
    4 

(c) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker designated by the Company. In addition, Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company. 
    5 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION 
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock: 
  Optionee:                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  Type of Option: U.S. Nonstatutory Stock Option 
  Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Number of Option Shares:                                                                                                                                                     shares 
  Exercise Price: $                  per share 
  First Vest Date:                                                                                                                                                                 
  Expiration Date:                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Exercise Schedule   . So long as Optionee s Service continues, the Option shall vest and become exercisable with respect to (i)                           percent (          %) of the option shares, as set forth above (the  Option Shares ) on the First Vest Date as set forth above and (ii) the balance of the Option Shares in                          installments upon Optionee s completion of each additional                          of Service over the                          period measured from the                          First Vest Date. In no event shall the Option vest and become exercisable for any additional Option Shares after Optionee s cessation of Service. 
  Should Optionee request a reduction to his or her work commitment to less than thirty (30) hours per week, then the Company shall have the right to extend the period over which the Option shall thereafter vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares during the remainder of the Option term to the extent permitted under local law. In no event shall any extension of the exercise schedule, as set forth above ( Exercise Schedule ) for the Option Shares result in the extension of the expiration date, as set forth above, ( Expiration Date ) of the Option. 
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement (the  Agreement ) attached hereto. 
  No Employment or Service Contract   . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) or of Optionee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s Service at any time for any reason, with or without cause to the extent permissible under local law. 
  Definitions   . All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Agreement or the Plan. 
    
    1 

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Recitals 
  A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board and Consultants. 
  B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee. 
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the  Notice ), or the Plan. 
  NOW, THEREFORE   , it is hereby agreed as follows: 
  1.     Grant of Option   . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the grant date, as set forth in the Notice, (the  Grant Date ) an option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice. 
  2.     Option Term   . This Option shall have a maximum term of                           years [not to exceed ten (10) years] measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6. 
  3.     Non-Transferability   . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution. 
  4.     Dates of Exercise   . This Option shall vest and become exercisable for the Option Shares in one or more installments as specified in the Notice. As the Option becomes exercisable for such installments, those installments shall accumulate and the Option shall remain exercisable for the accumulated installments until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term under Paragraph 5 or 6. As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5 or 6 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in Service as provided in Paragraph 5(i) and the date three (3) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1. 
  5.     Cessation of Service   . The Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date should any of the following provisions become applicable: 
  (i) Should Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason (other than death, Disability or Cause and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of three (3) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. 
  (ii) If Optionee dies while this Option is outstanding, then the Optionee s designated beneficiary or, if no beneficiary was designated or properly designated or, if no designated beneficiary survives the Optionee, the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law shall have the right to exercise this Option. Such right shall lapse, and this Option shall cease to be outstanding, upon the earlier of (A) the expiration of the eighteen (18) month period measured from the date of Optionee s death or (B) the Expiration Date. Optionee may only make a beneficiary designation with respect to this Option if the Company has approved a process or procedure for such beneficiary designation for the local jurisdiction within which Optionee performs services for the Company or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. If no such beneficiary designation process or procedure has been approved by the Company, then, in the event of Optionee s death, this Option may only be exercised by the Optionee s estate (to the extent reasonably determinable) or other individual or entity entitled to receive the Option under applicable local law. 
  (iii) Should Optionee cease Service by reason of Disability while this Option is outstanding, then Optionee shall have a period of eighteen (18) months (commencing with the date of such cessation of Service) during which to exercise this Option, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. 
  (iv) During the limited period of post-Service exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of vested Option Shares for which the Option is exercisable at the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service (not extended by any notice period mandated under local law). Upon the expiration of such limited exercise period or (if earlier) upon the Expiration Date, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. However, this Option shall, immediately as of the date the Optionee ceases to actively provide Service for any reason, terminate and  
    1 

cease to be outstanding with respect to any Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested or for which this Option is not otherwise at that time exercisable. 
  (v) Should Optionee s Service be terminated for Cause or should Optionee otherwise engage in activities constituting Cause while this Option is outstanding, then this Option shall terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding. In the event Optionee s Service is suspended pending an investigation of whether Optionee s Service will be terminated for Cause, all Optionee s rights under the Option, including the right to exercise the Option, shall be suspended during the investigation period. 
  (vi) For purposes of this Paragraph 5, in the event of Optionee s cessation of Service, Optionee s right to receive additional options or to vest in the Option will end as of the date the Optionee is no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (   e.g   ., active Service would not include any period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when an Optionee is no longer actively providing Service for purposes of this Option. 
  6.     Special Acceleration of Option     . 
  (a) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. No such acceleration of this Option, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Option is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) this Option is replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the spread existing on the unvested Option Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction (the excess of the Fair Market Value of those Option Shares over the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such Shares) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the same Exercise Schedule set forth in the Notice. The determination of option comparability under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by the Option and the Exercise Price immediately after such Corporate Transaction, provided the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. 
  (d) This Option, to the extent outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested and exercisable, shall automatically accelerate so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become vested and exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for any or all of those Option Shares as fully-vested Shares. This Option shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or sooner termination of the Option term. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  7.     Adjustment in Option Shares   . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder. 
  8.     Shareholder Rights   . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares. 
  9.     Manner of Exercising Option   . 
  (a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions: 
  (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms: 
  (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and 
  (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus,  
    2 

if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s (or a Parent s, Subsidiary s or Affiliate s) withholding obligations (including income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax items related to Optionee s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to Optionee ( Tax-Related Items )) and (II) to the Company to deliver the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction. 
  (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option. 
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or a Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all withholding or other obligations related to Tax-Related Items applicable to the Option grant, vesting, exercise or the sale of Shares, as applicable. 
  (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares, (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions. 
  (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares. 
  (d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan, this Agreement or any other agreement to the contrary, if at the time this Option is exercised, Optionee is indebted to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) for any reason, the following actions shall be taken, as deemed appropriate by the Committee: 
  (i) any Shares to be issued upon such exercise shall automatically be pledged against Optionee s outstanding indebtedness; and 
  (ii) if this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above, the after tax proceeds of the sale of Optionee s Shares shall automatically be applied to the outstanding balance of Optionee s indebtedness. 
  10.     Responsibility for Taxes   . 
  (a) Optionee authorizes the Company and/or the Optionee s employer (the  Employer ) or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding all applicable Tax-Related Items from Optionee s wages or other cash compensation paid to Optionee by the Company and/or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon exercise of the Option either through a voluntary sale (specifically including where this Option is exercised in accordance with subparagraph 9(a)(i)(B) above) or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on Optionee s behalf pursuant to this authorization); or (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon exercise of the Option. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. Finally, Optionee must pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of Optionee s participation in the Plan or Optionee s purchase of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of the Shares if Optionee fails to comply with Optionee s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this Paragraph. 
  (b) Regardless of any action the Company or the Employer takes with respect to any or all Tax-Related Items, Optionee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items is and remains Optionee s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. Optionee further acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Option, including the grant, vesting or exercise of the Option, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such exercise and the receipt of any dividends; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate Optionee s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if Optionee becomes subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, Optionee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  11.     Compliance with Laws and Regulations   . 
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance and all applicable foreign laws. 
  (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. 
    3 

12.     Successors and Assigns   . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5 and 6, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate.  
  13.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  14.     Construction   . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and if any one or more provisions are determined to be illegal or otherwise unenforceable, in whole or in part, the remaining provisions shall nevertheless be binding and enforceable. 
  15.     Governing Law and Forum   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts. 
  16.     Excess Shares   . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules. 
  17.     Leave of Absence   . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, to the extent permitted by local law, the following provisions shall apply upon the Optionee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence: 
  (a) The Exercise Schedule in effect under the Notice shall be frozen as of the first day of the authorized leave, and this Option shall not become exercisable for any additional installments of the Option Shares during the period Optionee remains on such leave. 
  (b) In no event shall this Option become exercisable for any additional Option Shares or otherwise remain outstanding if Optionee does not resume Service prior to the Expiration Date of the Option term. 
    
  18.     Further Instruments   . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement. 
  19.     Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) Optionee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of Optionee s personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan. 
  (b) Optionee understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Optionee, including, but not limited to, Optionee s name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in Optionee s country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than Optionee s country. Optionee understands that Optionee may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative. Optionee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing Optionee s participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of the Option under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Options or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
    4 

(c) Optionee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage Optionee s participation in the Plan. Optionee understands that Optionee may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting Optionee s local human resources representative in writing. Optionee further acknowledges that withdrawal of consent may affect Optionee s ability to vest in or realize benefits from the Options, and Optionee s ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of Optionee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, Optionee understands that Optionee may contact Optionee s local human resources representative. 
  20.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Optionee s rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Option or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit Optionee to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting this Option, Optionee expressly acknowledges that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to Optionee or benefits in lieu of Options or any other Awards even if Options have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future Option grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
  (b) This Option and the Shares subject to the Option are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of Optionee s normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of Optionee s salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Option and the Shares subject to the Option are an extraordinary item that do not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which are outside the scope of Optionee s written employment agreement (if any). 
  (c) Optionee acknowledges that he or she is voluntarily participating in the Plan. 
  (d) Neither the Plan nor this Option or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give Optionee a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate the Service of Optionee at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any). 
  (e) The grant of the Option and Optionee s participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. 
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty. If the underlying Shares do not increase in value, the Option will have no value. If Optionee exercises the Option and obtains Shares, the value of the Shares acquired upon exercise may increase or decrease in value, even below the Exercise Price. Optionee also understands that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between the Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Option. 
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Option, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Option resulting from termination of Optionee s Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and Optionee irrevocably releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, Optionee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived Optionee s entitlement to pursue such claim. 
  (h) Optionee agrees that the Company may require Options granted hereunder be exercised with, and the Option Shares held by, a broker designated by the Company. 
  (i) Optionee agrees that his or her rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts the Optionee owes to the Company. 
  (j) The Option and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability. 
  21.     No Advice Regarding Grant   . The Company and the Employer have not provided any tax, legal or financial advice, nor has the Company or the Employer made any recommendations regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan, or Optionee s acquisition or sale of the underlying Shares. Optionee is hereby advised to consult with Optionee s own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding Optionee s participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
  22.     Electronic Delivery   . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to Optionee s current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request Optionee s consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Optionee hereby  
    5 

consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  23.     Language   . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other then English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence. 
  24.     Appendix   . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Option shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for Optionee s country of residence. Moreover, if Optionee relocates to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to Optionee, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement. 
  25.     Imposition of Other Requirements   . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on Optionee s participation in the Plan, on the Option and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. Optionee agrees to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, Optionee acknowledges that the laws of the country in which Optionee is working at the time of grant, vesting and exercise of the Option or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject Optionee to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that Optionee is and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill. 
    
    6 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows: 

Employee ID: 

Grant Date: 

Grant Number: 

Restricted Shares: 

First Vest Date: 
      
                           , 20          (the first annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date) 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Shares   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Shares   . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:                          percent (          %) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan. 
  3.     Special Acceleration     . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) this Stock Grant Agreement is, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof), or (ii) the Restricted Shares are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Stock Grant Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Stock Grant Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of shares and the kind of shares or securities covered by this Stock Grant Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (e) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
    1 

4.     Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant   . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service. 
  5.     Withholding Taxes   . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  6.     Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. 
    
  YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES. 
  7.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares   . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. 
  8.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law. 
  9.     Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends     .   Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  10.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  11.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any). 
  12.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
    2 

13.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
  (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  14.     Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  15.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  16.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  17.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
    
    3 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  PERFORMANCE-BASED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Performance-Based Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 

Employee ID: 

Grant Date: 

Grant Number: 

Target Amount of 
  Performance-Based Stock Units:   

Vest Date: 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.   Performance-Based Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, [subject to the approval by the stockholders of the Company of the amendment and restatement of the Plan,] and you hereby accept from the Company, Performance-Based Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. The Target Amount of Performance-Based Stock Units stated above reflects the target number of Performance-Based Stock Units (the  Target Amount ). The number of Performance-Based Stock Units ultimately paid out to you will range from                  % to                  % of the Target Amount as determined based upon the Company s performance during the performance period against the performance goals as set forth in   Exhibit A   . 
  2.   Vesting of Performance-Based Stock Units   . So long as your Service continues and subject to, and to the extent of, the satisfaction of the performance goals as set forth in   Exhibit A   , the Performance-Based Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:                                      (                   %) of the total number of Performance-Based Stock Units earned, if any, pursuant to the satisfaction of the performance goals in   Exhibit A   shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Sections 3(b) or 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion and to the extent permitted under applicable local law, either suspend vesting during the period of leave or pro-rate the Performance-Based Stock Units, notwithstanding the Company s Vesting Policy for Leaves of Absence. Prior to the time that the Performance-Based Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Performance-Based Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  3.   Termination of Service   . 
  (a) Except as otherwise provided in Section 3(b) below or Section 4, in the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Performance-Based Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Performance-Based Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing Service (or earlier upon your  Separation from Service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A) and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (   e.g.   , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Performance-Based Stock Units. 
    1 

(b) In the event that you resign or your Service is terminated for any reason other than Cause on or after the date that (x) you have attained at least                              (                  ) years of age and (y) your age plus your years of Service is at least equal to                              (                  ), and so long as such resignation or the termination of your Service occurs no earlier than the                      anniversary of the Grant Date (the satisfaction of the aforementioned conditions is referred to herein as  Retirement     1    ), all unvested Performance-Based Stock Units may be earned pursuant to the satisfaction of the performance goals in   Exhibit A   , and shall vest in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above, determined as if your Service had continued after your resignation or termination of Service, and shall be settled in accordance with Section 5(a); provided that any unsettled or unvested Performance-Based Stock Units shall be forfeited without consideration immediately upon the breach of any of the following conditions: 
  (i) Unless prohibited by applicable law, you shall render, as an independent advisor or consultant and not as an Employee, such advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) as shall reasonably be requested by the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), and such services shall not be terminated for Cause (for purposes of clarity, any request to provide such advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) shall not be considered a continuation of  Service  unless the Company specifically provides that the continuation of services is a continuation of  Service  for purposes of this Section 3(b)). 
  (ii) For a period of                  (              ) beginning on the date of your termination of Service or during any period in which you provide independent advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), you shall not directly or indirectly, individually or on behalf of other persons or entities, intentionally solicit or induce (a) any employee of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) to leave the employee s employment in order to accept employment with another person or entity or (b) any customer of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) with whom you have worked in your capacity as an Employee prior to your termination of Service whose identity and/or any related information constitutes protected trade secrets (with such customers determined as of the date of the termination of your Service, to retain or use any other person or entity for the purpose of rendering services in competition with the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate) or to purchase products from any business which, in the opinion of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), competes with or is in conflict with the interests of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), in either case, unless these restrictions are prohibited (whether in whole or in part) by applicable law. 
  (iii) For a period of                  (              ) beginning on the date of your termination of Service or during any period in which you provide independent advisory or consulting services to the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), you shall not render services for any organization or engage directly or indirectly in any business which, in the opinion of the Company, competes with or is in conflict with the interests of the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), unless this restriction is prohibited by applicable law. 
  (iv) You shall not, without prior written authorization from the Company, use or disclose any confidential information or trade secrets concerning the Company (or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate), in each case as determined by the Committee, and the Committee s determination shall be conclusive and binding. 
  (c) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event of the termination of your Service for Cause or in the event of the termination for Cause of any independent advisory or consulting services you may be providing as described in Section 3(b)(i), any unsettled or unvested Performance-Based Stock Units shall terminate and be forfeited immediately without consideration. 
                    1   
      
    If you are subject to the employment protections of a country within the European Economic Area because you reside in such country or are otherwise subject thereto,  Retirement  shall mean your years of Service is at least equal to                              (                  ), regardless of your age, and the provisions concerning Retirement shall apply to you so long as the termination of your Service occurs no earlier than the one-year anniversary of the Grant Date. In all cases, years of Service shall be determined based on the date you originally provided Service. If you previously terminated Service, but subsequently returned to Service prior to the Grant Date, you will receive credit for your prior Service. 

2 

4.   Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Performance-Based Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Performance-Based Stock Units shall automatically become vested in full at the Target Amount immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and settled in accordance with Section 5 below. No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Performance-Based Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable performance-based stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof), in each case, having a minimum payout equal to the Target Amount and preserving the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below or (ii) these Performance-Based Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code Section 409A and, at a minimum, preserves the fair market value of the Performance-Based Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction (based on the Target Amount) and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below. The determination of the comparability of performance-based stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the settlement of Performance-Based Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
  (d) To the extent the Performance-Based Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Performance-Based Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at the Target Amount at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.   Settlement of Performance-Based Stock Units   . 
  (a)   General Settlement Terms   . The Performance-Based Stock Units, to the extent earned and vested hereunder (including, without limitation by reason of Retirement), shall be automatically settled in Shares on the Vest Date (which constitutes a fixed payment date for purposes of Code Section 409A) or, if earlier, upon the earliest to occur of the settlement events set forth below or in the Company s Vesting Acceleration Policy for Death and Terminal Illness; it being understood that nothing herein shall limit the Company s ability to amend or terminate such policy in its sole discretion and without your consent. 
  (b)   Corporate Transaction   . If, as of the Grant Date, you have not satisfied and it is not possible for you to satisfy the age and Service Retirement conditions with respect to this Performance-Based Stock Unit award and this Performance-Based Stock Unit award is not assumed or replaced as described in Section 4(a) in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction instead of on the Vest Date. 
  (c)   Change in Control   . In the event a Change in Control is consummated prior to the Vest Date and such Change in Control is a permissible distribution event under Code Section 409A, the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control. In the event such Change in Control is not a permissible distribution event under Code Section 409A, the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon the earlier of (i) the Vest Date or (ii) your Separation from Service that occurs immediately prior to or at any time after such Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, as of the Grant Date, you have not satisfied and it is not possible for you to satisfy the age and Service Retirement conditions with respect to this Performance-Based Stock Unit award, then such settlement shall in all cases occur immediately prior the effective date of the Change in Control. 
  (d) The Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. 
  (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5 or in this Agreement, to the extent your Performance-Based Stock Units would otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company s first business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service. 
  6.   Taxes   . 
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Performance-Based Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Performance-Based Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such  
    3 

Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Performance-Based Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Performance-Based Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Performance-Based Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. 
  (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  7.   Tax and Legal Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY PERFORMANCE-BASED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES. 
  8.   Non-Transferability of Performance-Based Stock Units   . Performance-Based Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  9.   Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws. 
  10.   Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions   . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws. 
  12.   Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Performance-Based Stock Units are settled in Shares. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to Performance-Based Stock Units. 
  13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
    4 

(b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Performance-Based Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Performance-Based Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Performance-Based Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Performance-Based Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Performance-Based Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Performance-Based Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Performance-Based Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Performance-Based Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Performance-Based Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
  (b) The Performance-Based Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Performance-Based Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Performance-Based Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any). 
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan. 
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Performance-Based Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any). 
  (e) The grant of the Performance-Based Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. 
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Performance-Based Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the     
  Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award. 
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Performance-Based Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Performance-Based Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) or from the Company s determination that performance goals have not been satisfied in whole or in part and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim. 
    5 

(h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Performance-Based Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company. 
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  (j) The Performance-Based Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability. 
  15.   Governing Law and Forum   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts. 
  16.   Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  17.   Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  18.   Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
    
  19.   Electronic Delivery   . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  20.   Language   . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence. 
  21.   Appendix   . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Performance-Based Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement. 
  22.   Imposition of Other Requirements   . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Performance-Based Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Performance-Based Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill. 
  23.   Acceptance of Agreement   . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Performance-Based Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Performance-Based Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Performance-Based Stock Units will be subject to cancellation. 
  *    *    *    * 
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. 
  PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS 
    
    6 

(For Grants Beginning September 2013) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.      STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).  The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 
  Employee ID:           
  Grant Date:           
  Grant Number:           
  Restricted Stock Units:           
  First Vest Date:           
  To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan.  In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.  Restricted Stock Units  .  Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.  Vesting of Restricted Stock Units  .  So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:  ________________ percent ( ___%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each ______ anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below.  If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under the employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are providing Service or the terms your employment or service agreement, if any.  Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company.  The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  3.  Termination of Service  .  In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of the employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or providing Service, or the terms your employment or service agreement, if any), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer providing Service; the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units. 
  4.  Special Acceleration  . 
  (a)  To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically become vested in full immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction.  No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and to the extent:  (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code Section 409A and preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below.  The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
    1 

(b)  Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the deferred settlement of Restricted Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c)  If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
  (d)  To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below. 
  (e)  This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.  Settlement of Restricted Stock Units  .  To the extent you are eligible but have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable Tax-Related Items, as described an defined in Section 6 below, and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable laws.  To the extent you are eligible but have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon the earlier of: (a) your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ) and (b) the fixed payment date elected by you, if any, at the time of such deferral (which shall be the first business day of a year no earlier than six years after the year of the Grant Date in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent your Restricted Stock Units would otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company's first business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service. 
  6.  Taxes  . 
  (a)  Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares, and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b)  Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units.  In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:  (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company.  If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of  
    2 

any aspect of your participation in the Plan.  You agree to provide the Company and/or its stock plan broker/administrator with the information necessary to manage your Tax-Related Item withholding and acknowledge that should you fail to provide such information on a timely basis, the Company and/or its stock plan broker / administrator may be obligated to withhold amounts from you and it may be necessary for you to seek a refund directly from the tax authorities.  To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.  If the Company does not satisfy the obligation for Tax-Related Items by the withholding of Shares and instead withholds proceeds from the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering maximum applicable rates, in which case you will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash to the extent that any over-withheld amount has not otherwise been remitted to the applicable tax authority and will have no entitlement to the Common Stock equivalent. 
  (c)  Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  7.  Tax and Legal Advice  .  You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, the Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences.  YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE.  YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.  YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND THE EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR THE EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD.  NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES.  
  8.  Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units  .  Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  9.  Restriction on Transfer  .  Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law, including all applicable foreign laws. 
  10.  Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions  .  Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  11.  Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments  .  You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws. 
  12.  Voting and Other Rights  .  Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares.  In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to Restricted Stock Units. 
    3 

13.  Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information  . 
  (a)  You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  (b)  You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country.  You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative.  You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited.  Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (c)  You understand that the Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan.  You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing.  Further, you understand that you are providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant you Restricted Stock Units or other equity awards, or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units and your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
  14.  No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation  .   
  (a)  Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units     or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award.  The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement.  By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted in the past.  All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee.  
  (b)  The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer     or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.  The value of the Restricted Stock Units     is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment or service agreement (if any).   
    4 

(c)  You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan. 
  (d)  Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate.  The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason. 
  (e)  The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or service relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. 
  (f)  The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease.  You also understand that none of the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between the Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award. 
  (g)  No claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units resulting from the termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of the employment laws in the jurisdiction where you are employed or providing Service, or the terms your employment or service agreement, if any) and, in consideration of the grant of the Award to which you are not otherwise entitled, you irrevocably agree never to institute any claim against the Employer, the Company or its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, waive your ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and release the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates from any such claim; if notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by accepting the Award, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed to not pursue such claim and agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request the withdrawal of such claim.  
  (h)  You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company. 
  (i)  You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  (j)  Unless otherwise provided in the Plan or this Agreement, or by the Company in its discretion, the Restricted Stock Units and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Restricted Stock Units transferred to, or assumed by, another company, nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for in connection with any Corporate Transaction affecting the Common Stock. 
  15.  Governing Law and Forum  .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.  For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts. 
  16.  Notices  .  Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  17.  Binding Effect  .  Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  18.  Severability  .  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible.  In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
  19.  Waiver  .  You agree that a waiver by the Company of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement, or of any subsequent breach by you or any other participant. 
    5 

20.  Electronic Delivery  . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means.  You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  21.  Language  .  If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence. 
  22.  Appendix  .  Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence.  Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan.  The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement. 
  23.  Imposition of Other Requirements  .      The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan.  You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing.  Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill. 
  24.  Acceptance of Agreement  .  You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you.  If you do not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation. 
  *    *    *    * 
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. 
  PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS 
    
    6 

(For Grants Beginning September 2012 and  
  Prior to September 2013) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 

Employee ID: 

Grant Date: 

Grant Number: 

Restricted Stock Units: 

First Vest Date: 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.   Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: ___________ percent (__%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each __________ anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  3.   Termination of Service   . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (   e.g.   , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units.  
  4.   Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically become vested in full immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction. No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code Section 409A and preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the deferred settlement of Restricted Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
    1 

(d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . To the extent you are eligible but have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. To the extent you are eligible but have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon the earlier of: (a) your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ) and (b) the fixed payment date elected by you, if any, at the time of such deferral (which shall be the first business day of a year no earlier than six years after the year of the Grant Date in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent your Restricted Stock Units would otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company s first business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service. 
  6.   Taxes   . 
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. 
  (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
    
  7.   Tax and Legal Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES. 
    2 

8.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  9.   Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws. 
  10.   Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions   . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws. 
  12.   Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to Restricted Stock Units. 
    
  13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan   . 
  (b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan   . 
  (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative   . 
    
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
    3 

(b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any). 
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan. 
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any). 
  (e) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. 
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award. 
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim. 
  (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company. 
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  (j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability. 
  15.   Governing Law and Forum   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts. 
  16.   Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  17.   Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  18.   Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
  19.   Electronic Delivery   . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
    
  20.   Language   . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence. 
    4 

21.   Appendix   . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement. 
  22.   Imposition of Other Requirements   . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill. 
  23.   Acceptance of Agreement   . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation. 
  *    *    *    * 
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. 
  PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS 
    
    5 

(For Grants Beginning September 2010 and 
  Prior to September 2012) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 

Employee ID: 

Grant Date: 

Grant Number: 

Restricted Stock Units: 

First Vest Date: 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.   Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:                      (          %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each              anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  3.   Termination of Service   . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (   e.g.   , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units. 
  4.   Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically become vested in full immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction. No such accelerated vesting, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which complies with Code Section 409A and preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the settlement provisions set forth in Section 5 below. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except as set forth in Section 5 below with respect to the deferred settlement of Restricted Stock Units or to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
    1 

(d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time and settled in accordance with Section 5 below. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . To the extent you are eligible but have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. To the extent you are eligible but have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon the earlier of: (a) your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ) and (b) the fixed payment date elected by you, if any, at the time of such deferral (which shall be the first business day of a year no earlier than five years after the year of the Grant Date in accordance with procedures approved by the Committee), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent your Restricted Stock Units would otherwise be settled upon your Separation from Service, such settlement shall instead occur upon the Company s first business day following the six-month anniversary of your Separation from Service. 
  6.   Taxes   . 
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance.  
  (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  7.   Tax and Legal Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES. 
    2 

8.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  9.   Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws. 
  10.   Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions   . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  11.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws.     
  12.   Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to Restricted Stock Units. 
  13.   Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a)   You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. 
  (b)   You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (c)   You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   .    
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
  (b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to,  
    3 

calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any). 
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan. 
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any). 
  (e) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. 
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award. 
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim. 
  (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company. 
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  (j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability. 
  15.   Governing Law and Forum   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts. 
  16.   Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  17.   Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  18.   Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
  19.   Electronic Delivery   . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
    
  20.   Language   . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence. 
  21.   Appendix   . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application  
    4 

of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement. 
  22.   Imposition of Other Requirements   . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill. 
  23.   Acceptance of Agreement   . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation. 
  *    *    *    * 
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. 
  PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS 
    
    5 

(For Grants Beginning September 2008 and 
  Prior to September 2010) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 

Employee ID:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
        
      Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
        
      Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
        
      Restricted Stock Units:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
        
      First Vest Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule:                          percent (          %) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each                          anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. If you take a leave of absence, the Company may, at its discretion, suspend vesting during the period of leave to the extent permitted under applicable local law. Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  3.     Termination of Service   . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of the preceding sentence, your right to vest in the Restricted Stock Units will terminate effective as of the date that you are no longer 
    
  actively providing Service and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law (   e.g.   , active Service would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar period pursuant to local law); the Company shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when you are no longer actively providing Service for purposes of the Restricted Stock Units. 
  4.     Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
    1 

(c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.     Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax and/or other obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. 
  6.     Taxes   . 
  (a) Regardless of any action the Company or your employer (the  Employer ) takes with respect to any and all income tax, social taxes or insurance contributions, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to your participation in the Plan and legally applicable to you ( Tax-Related Items ), you acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items with respect to the Restricted Stock Units is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer. You further acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (i) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired at vesting or the receipt of any dividends with respect to such Shares; and (ii) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms or any aspect of the Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate your liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result. Further, if you become subject to taxation in more than one jurisdiction between the Grant Date and the date of any relevant taxable event, you acknowledge that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b) Prior to any relevant tax, withholding or required deduction event, as applicable, you agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable tax, withholding, required deduction and payment on account obligations of the Company and/or the Employer that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units. In this regard, you authorize the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy any obligations related to Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (1) withholding from your wages or other cash compensation payable to you by the Company or the Employer; (2) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on your behalf pursuant to this authorization); (3) withholding of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Units; or (4) requiring you to satisfy the liability for Tax-Related Items by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding of Shares, for tax purposes, you are deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested Restricted Stock Units, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items due as a result of any aspect of your participation in the Plan. To avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory rates or may take any other action required to avoid financial accounting charges under applicable accounting guidance. 
  (c) Finally, you will pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of your participation in the Plan or your acquisition of Shares that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  7.     Tax and Legal Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that neither the Company nor your Employer have made any warranties or representations to you with respect to any Tax-Related Items, legal or financial consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company, your Employer s or the Company s or the Employer s representatives for an assessment of such consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE LAWS GOVERNING THIS AWARD ARE SUBJECT TO 
     CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN PROFESSIONAL TAX, LEGAL AND FINANCIAL ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE COMPANY AND YOUR EMPLOYER ARE NOT PROVIDING ANY TAX, LEGAL, OR FINANCIAL ADVICE, NOR IS THE COMPANY OR YOUR EMPLOYER MAKING ANY RECOMMENDATION REGARDING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER OR OTHER PENALTIES. 
  8.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  9.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates  
    2 

and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law including all applicable foreign laws. 
  10.     Restrictive Legends and Stop-Transfer Instructions   . Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends and/or appropriate stop-transfer instructions may be issued to the Company s transfer agent as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  11.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable laws. 
  12.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. In addition, you shall not have any rights to dividend equivalent payments with respect to unvested Restricted Stock Units. 
  13.     Authorization to Release and Transfer Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a)     You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal information as described in this Agreement by and among, as applicable, the Employer, and the Company and its Parent, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.  
  (b)     You understand that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, residency status, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding (the  Data ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, including outside the European Economic Area, and that the recipient s country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such Shares may be deposited. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Parent, Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (c)     You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view the Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of the Data, require any necessary amendments to the Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to vest in or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
  14.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. The Plan may be amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this Agreement. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Restricted Stock Units to you or benefits in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been granted repeatedly in the past. All decisions with respect to future grants of Restricted Stock Units, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
    
  (b) The Restricted Stock Units and the Shares subject to the Restricted Stock Units are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation and are not to be considered compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represent any portion of your salary, compensation or other remuneration for any purpose, including but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments, and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. The value of the Restricted Stock Units is an  
    3 

extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate and which is outside the scope of your written employment agreement (if any). 
  (c) You acknowledge that you are voluntarily participating in the Plan. 
  (d) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Employer reserves the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, and a written employment agreement (if any). 
  (e) The grant of the Restricted Stock Units and your participation in the Plan will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company, the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate. 
  (f) The future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and if you vest in the Restricted Stock Units and are issued Shares, the value of those Shares may increase or decrease. You also understand that neither the Company, nor the Employer or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate is responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your Employer s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this Award. 
  (g) In consideration of the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Stock Units resulting from termination of your Service by the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and you irrevocably release the Company and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived your entitlement to pursue such claim. 
  (h) You agree that the Company may require Shares received pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units to be held by a broker designated by the Company. 
  (i) You agree that your rights hereunder (if any) shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  (j) The Restricted Stock Units and the benefits under the Plan, if any, will not automatically transfer to another company in the case of a merger, take-over or transfer of liability. 
  15.     Governing Law and Forum   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. For purposes of litigating any dispute that may arise directly or indirectly from this Agreement, the parties hereby submit and consent to litigation in the exclusive jurisdiction of the State of California and agree that any such litigation shall be conducted only in the courts of California or the federal courts for the United States for the Northern District of California and no other courts. 
  16.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  17.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  18.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
  19.     Electronic Delivery   . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to your current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means or to request your consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
  20.     Language   . If this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan is translated into a language other than English and the meaning of the translated version is different from the English version, the English version will take precedence. 
  21.     Appendix   . Notwithstanding any provisions in this Agreement, the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to any special terms and conditions set forth in any Appendix to this Agreement for your country of residence. Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement. 
    
    4 

22.     Imposition of Other Requirements   . The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Stock Units and on any Shares acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. You agree to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. Furthermore, you acknowledge that the laws of the country in which you are working at the time of grant, vesting and settlement of the Restricted Stock Units or the sale of Shares received pursuant to this Agreement (including any rules or regulations governing securities, foreign exchange, tax, labor, or other matters) may subject you to additional procedural or regulatory requirements that you are and will be solely responsible for and must fulfill. 
  23.     Acceptance of Agreement   . You must expressly accept the terms and conditions of your Restricted Stock Units as set forth in this Agreement by electronically accepting this Agreement within 300 days after the Company sends this Agreement to you. If you do not accept your Restricted Stock Units in the manner instructed by the Company, your Restricted Stock Units will be subject to cancellation. 
  *        *        *        * 
  You acknowledge that by clicking on the   I agree   button below, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. 
  PLEASE PRINT AND KEEP A COPY FOR YOUR RECORDS 

5 

(For Grants Prior to September 2008) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 
  Employee ID:                                                                                                                                                                         
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                         
  Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                         
  Restricted Stock Units:                                                                                                                                                                         
  First Vest Date:                                                                              (the first annual anniversary of the vesting commencement date) 
  To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your Service continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: twenty percent (20%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and on each annual anniversary thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. 
  3.     Termination of Service   . In the event of the termination of your Service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. 
  4.     Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction and shall become vested in full at that time. No such acceleration, however, shall occur if and to the extent: (i) these Restricted Stock Units are, in connection with the Corporate Transaction, either assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or replaced with comparable restricted stock units of the successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) these Restricted Stock Units are replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which preserves the fair market value of the Restricted Stock Units at the time of the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent pay-out in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in Section 2 above. The determination of the comparability of restricted stock units under clause (i) shall be made by the Committee, and such determination shall be final, binding and conclusive 
  (b) Immediately following the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, this Agreement shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with the Corporate Transaction. 
  (c) If this Agreement is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then the Committee shall appropriately adjust the number of units and the kind of shares or securities to be issued pursuant to this Agreement immediately after such Corporate Transaction. 
  (d) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (e) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.     Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 6 below and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. 
  6.     Withholding Taxes   . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Stock Units which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any  
    1 

case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligations. The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  7.     Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES. 
  8.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  9.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law. 
  10.     Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .   Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  11.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  12.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. 
  13.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct your employer to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), salary, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
  14.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to  
    2 

applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  15.     Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  16.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  17.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  18.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
    
    3 

PERFORMANCE RSU LETTER 
  [Date] 
  [Name] 
  [Address] 
  [Address] 
  Dear                              : 
  [introductory text] 
  Your leadership team has recommended that you receive a performance-based restricted stock unit (PRSU) right with a target of [                          ]. RSUs will be granted after the end of FY[          ] based upon the satisfaction of an FY[          ] performance condition. 
  The right to receive a grant of a restricted stock unit depends on Cisco s satisfaction of certain [                          ] targets for FY[          ]. Assuming those targets are met or exceeded, the restricted stock units that you are granted will vest [                          ] percent on the date of grant and [                          ] percent on each of the next [                  ] anniversaries of the date of grant thereafter, subject to your continued employment with Cisco or an affiliate on the applicable vesting date. On each vesting date, the vested units will be settled in Cisco common stock. In addition, in the unlikely event that a corporate transaction or change in control (each as defined in Cisco s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan) is consummated during FY[          ] or prior to the Compensation and Management Development Committee s Certification regarding satisfaction of the FY[          ] performance conditions, the performance-based restricted stock unit right will be deemed fully earned at target (100%) immediately prior to the effective date of the corporate transaction or the change in control, as the case may be, and will be settled in fully vested Cisco common stock at that time. 
  Lastly, please note that, if you are employed outside the United States, the Compensation and Management Development Committee can grant the PRSU Right to you, in its sole discretion, only if and as long as it is permitted and feasible to grant restricted stock units under the laws of the country in which you are employed. If local laws make the grant of restricted stock units illegal or impractical, Cisco will let you know as soon as possible. You are under no obligation to accept the PRSU Right or any restricted stock units that may subsequently be granted to you. 

[concluding text] 
        
      Sincerely, 

A   CTION   R   EQUIRED   : M   UST     BE     RETURNED     BY   [INSERT APPROPRIATE DATE] 

Deferral Election for 
  Annual Equity Award 
  2005 Stock Incentive Plan 
  (For Elections Prior to January 2011) 

Name (Last, First, Middle Initial) 

Employee Number 

You may use this form to: 

Indicate the percentage of your annual restricted stock unit grant under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan that you wish to defer. Your elected percentage will apply to each vesting installment of such grant. 

Designate the settlement timing of the deferred portion of your vested annual restricted stock unit grant. 

PLEASE REMEMBER THAT ONCE YOU MAKE AN ELECTION TO DEFER A RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT GRANT, YOU CANNOT REVOKE THAT ELECTION. 

D   EFERRAL   E  LECTION 
      
    Please select if you wish to defer restricted stock units; fill in the appropriate blanks. 

Restricted Stock 
  Unit Grant 
      
    I elect to defer                      % (you may only insert 25%, 50%, 75%, or 100%) of my annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                          , 201          (subject to my continued employment with the Company or the Employer). I understand that this elected percentage will apply to each vesting installment of this grant. 

S   ETTLEMENT   D  ATE   *  
      
    Please complete this section to indicate settlement timing for the deferred portion of your vested annual restricted stock unit grant. You may only choose one alternative. 

Separation of Service 
    
  OR 
      
    I elect to defer the settlement of the deferred portion of my vested annual restricted stock unit grant to my Separation of Service (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code). 

Date Specific (subject 
  to earlier settlement 
  upon separation from 
  service) 
      
    I elect to defer the settlement of the deferred portion of my vested annual restricted stock unit grant to the earlier of (i) my Separation from Service; or (ii) the first business day of 20                  (insert a year no earlier than 5 years after the year of grant and no later than 15 years after the year of grant). 
        
      *       Any vested portion of the deferred portion of my restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock. 

A  CTION   R  EQUIRED   : M  UST     BE     RETURNED     BY   [INSERT APPROPRIATE DATE] 

Deferral Election for 
  Annual Equity Award 
  2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

I understand: 

To the extent I do not elect to defer the settlement of my restricted stock unit grant, such portion of the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. 

Any vested portion of the deferred restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock as elected by me above. 

If my Separation from Service occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested restricted stock units will be forfeited as of the date my Separation from Service occurs. 

Any employment taxes that are due upon the vesting of my restricted stock unit grant (including the deferred portion of my grant) shall be deducted at the time of vesting by one or a combination of the following: 

(1) 
    withholding from my wages or other cash compensation payable to me by the Company or the Employer; 

(2) 
    withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares acquired upon settlement of the restricted stock units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on my behalf pursuant to this authorization); 

(3) 
    withholding of shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the restricted stock units; or 

(4) 
    requiring me to satisfy the liability for any employment taxes by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. 

The receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any restricted stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock. This is true whether or not I elect to defer settlement of my restricted stock units. 

The settlement of the deferred portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant upon my Separation from Service will be delayed for 6 months. 

ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED: 

Signature of Participant                                          Date 

A  CTION   R  EQUIRED   : M  UST     BE     RETURNED     BY   [INSERT APPROPRIATE DATE] 

Deferral Election for  Annual Equity Award 
  2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Name (Last, First, Middle Initial) 

Employee Number 

You may use this form to: 

Indicate the percentage of your annual restricted stock unit grant under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan that you wish to defer. Your elected percentage will apply to each vesting installment of such grant. 

Designate the settlement timing of the deferred portion of your vested annual restricted stock unit grant. 

PLEASE REMEMBER THAT ONCE YOU MAKE AN ELECTION TO DEFER A RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT GRANT, YOU CANNOT REVOKE THAT ELECTION. 

D   EFERRAL   E   LECTION     
      
    Please select if you wish to defer restricted stock units; fill in the appropriate blanks. 

Restricted Stock  Unit Grant 
      
    I elect to defer                      % (you may only insert 25%, 50%, 75%, or 100%) of my annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                          , 201          (subject to my continued employment with the Company or the Employer). I understand that this elected percentage will apply to each vesting installment of this grant. 

S   ETTLEMENT   D   ATE   * 
      
    Please complete this section to indicate settlement timing for the deferred portion of your vested annual restricted stock unit grant. You may only choose one alternative. 

OR 
      
    Separationof Service 

I elect to defer the settlement of the deferred portion of my vested annual restricted stock unit grant to my Separation of Service (as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code). 

Date Specific (subject  to earlier settlement  upon separation from service) 
      
    I elect to defer the settlement of the deferred portion of my vested annual restricted stock unit grant to the earlier of (i) my Separation from Service; or (ii) the first business day of 20                  (insert a year no earlier than 6 years after the year of grant and no later than 15 years after the year of grant). 

* 
    Any vested portion of the deferred portion of my restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock. 

A  CTION   R  EQUIRED   : M  UST     BE     RETURNED     BY   [INSERT APPROPRIATE DATE] 

Deferral Election for 
  Annual Equity Award 
  2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

I understand: 

To the extent I do not elect to defer the settlement of my restricted stock unit grant, such portion of the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. 

Any vested portion of the deferred restricted stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock as elected by me above. 

If my Separation from Service occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested restricted stock units will be forfeited as of the date my Separation from Service occurs. 

Separation from Service  is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). While separation from service generally means termination of employment, a Separation from Service can also occur in the case of certain leaves of absence or upon a significant reduction in my work schedule. These events can trigger a  Separation from Service  resulting in the forfeiture of my unvested restricted stock units. 

Certain leaves of absence can result in the suspension of vesting of my unvested restricted stock units. If I take a leave of absence that suspends the vesting of my restricted stock units such that they are unvested as of the applicable distribution event (whether that is Separation from Service or a date specific I elected), my restricted stock units that are unvested at the time of such distribution event shall be forfeited. 

Any employment taxes that are due upon the vesting of my restricted stock unit grant (including the deferred portion of my grant) shall be deducted at the time of vesting by one or a combination of the following: 

(1) 
    withholding from my wages or other cash compensation payable to me by the Company or the Employer; 

(2) 
    withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares acquired upon settlement of the restricted stock units either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on my behalf pursuant to this authorization); 

(3) 
    withholding of shares that would otherwise be issued upon settlement of the restricted stock units; or 

(4) 
    requiring me to satisfy the liability for any employment taxes by means of any other arrangement approved by the Company. 

The receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any restricted stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock. This is true whether or not I elect to defer settlement of my restricted stock units. 

The settlement of the deferred portion of my annual restricted stock unit grant upon my Separation from Service will be delayed for 6 months. 

ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED: 

Signature of Participant                                          Date 

Non-Employee Director Initial RSU Grant 
  (For Grants Beginning November 2012) 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 
  Grantee:                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                                               
  Restricted Stock Units:                                                                                                                                                                                

Vest Date: 
      
                                                      (the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders following the initial election or appointment date) 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.   Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.   Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. 
  3.   Termination of Service   . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. 
  4.   Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.   Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. 
  6.   Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES. 
    1 

7.   Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  8.   Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law. 
  9.   Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .   Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  10.   Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  11.   Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. 
  12.   Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
  13.   No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
    
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  14.   Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
    2 

15.   Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  16.   Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  17.   Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 

3 

(For Grants Beginning Fiscal 2009 and Prior to November 2012) 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL RSU GRANT 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 
  Grantee:                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                                               
  Restricted Stock Units:                                                                                                                                                                                

First Vest Date: 
      
                                                      (the date of completion of the first year of service as a member of the Board measured from the initial election or appointment date) 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: fifty percent (50%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the First Vest Date and upon your completion of each year of service as a member of the Board thereafter, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. 
  3.     Termination of Service   . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. 
  4.     Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time. 
    1 

(b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.     Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. 
  6.     Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES. 
  7.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
  8.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law.  
  9.     Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .   Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  10.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  11.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. 
  12.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
    
    2 

13.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  14.     Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  15.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  16.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  17.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
    
    3 

(For Grants Beginning Fiscal 2009) 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL RSU GRANT 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (  as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 
  Grantee:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                                                 
  Restricted Stock Units:                                                                                                                                                                                  
  Vest Date: The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date. 
  To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 4 below. 
  3.     Termination of Service   . Except as provided in Section 4 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. 
  4.     Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability, to the extent the Restricted Stock Units are outstanding, such Restricted Stock Units shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (c) This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  5.     Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . To the extent you have not elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon vesting of such Restricted Stock Units, provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. To the extent you have elected to defer settlement of the Restricted Stock Units, the vested portion of the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless such issuance complies with all applicable law. 
  6.     Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES. 
  7.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. 
    1 

8.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law. 
    
  9.     Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   .   Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  10.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  11.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting. 
  12.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled upon vesting, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
  13.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award are derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting these Restricted Stock Units, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. These Restricted Stock Units are not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your compensation or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  (b) Neither the Plan nor these Restricted Stock Units or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to continue to serve on the Board of the Company for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate your service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. You shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, these Restricted Stock Units or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
  (c) You agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  14.     Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  15.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or  
    2 

registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  16.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  17.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 

3 

(For Grants Prior to Fiscal 2009) 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INITIAL GRANT 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION 
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock: 
  Optionee:                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option 
  Grant Number:                                                                                                                                                                               
  Number of Option Shares:                                                                                                                                                            shares 
  Exercise Price: $                  per share 
  Expiration Date:                                                                                                                                                                               
  Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable 
  Vesting Schedule 
  The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of four (4) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the four (4) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service. 
  REPURCHASE RIGHT   . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE. 
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto. 
  No Service Contract   . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law.  
  Definitions   .   All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan. 
  DATED:                                ,            

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

By: 

Title: 

OPTIONEE 

1 

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Recitals 
  A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary). 
  B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee. 
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan. 
  NOW, THEREFORE   , it is hereby agreed as follows: 
  1.     Grant of Option   . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice. 
  2.     Option Term   . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7. 
  3.     Non-Transferability     .   This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution. 
  4.     Exercisability/Vesting   . 
  (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. 
  (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member. 
  (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve (12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1. 
  5.     Cessation of Board Service   .   Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains outstanding, then the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions: 
  (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding, then the period for exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. 
  (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this Option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date. 
  (c) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the  
    1 

person or persons to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date. 
  (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below. 
  6.     Corporate Transaction   . 
  (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company. 
  (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,   provided   the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. 
  7.     Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over   . 
  (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the   earliest   to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b). 
  (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept. Further, for purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over. 
  (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the Option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares. 
  8.     Adjustment in Option Shares   . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder. 
  9.     Shareholder Rights   . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares. 
  10.     Manner of Exercising Option   . 
    2 

(a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions: 
  (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms: 
  (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and 
  (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction. 
  (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option. 
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise. 
  (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares. 
  (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions. 
  (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares. 
  11.     No Impairment of Rights   . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law. 
  12.     Compliance with Laws and Regulations   . 
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance. 
  (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals. 
  13.     Successors and Assigns   . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5, 6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate. 
  14.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  15.     Construction   . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option. 
    3 

16.     Governing Law   . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  17.     Excess Shares   . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules. 
  18.     Further Instruments   . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement. 
    
    4 

(For Grants Prior to Fiscal 2009) 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ANNUAL GRANT 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  NOTICE OF GRANT OF STOCK OPTION 
  Notice is hereby given of the following option grant (the  Option ) made to purchase shares of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) common stock: 
  Optionee:                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  Grant Date:                                                                                                                                                                                                      
  Type of Option: Nonstatutory Stock Option 
    
                 Grant 
    Number:                                                                                                                                                                               

Number of Option Shares:                                                                                                                                                                      shares 
  Exercise Price: $                  per share 
  Expiration Date:                                                                                                                                                                               
  Date Exercisable: Immediately Exercisable 
  Vesting Schedule 
  The Option Shares shall initially be unvested and subject to repurchase by the Company at the Exercise Price paid per share. Optionee shall acquire a vested interest in, and the Company s repurchase right shall accordingly lapse, with respect to, the Option Shares in a series of two (2) successive equal annual installments upon Optionee s completion of each year of service as a member of the Board over the two (2) year period measured from the Grant Date. In no event shall any additional Option Shares vest after Optionee s cessation of Board service. 
  REPURCHASE RIGHT   . OPTIONEE HEREBY AGREES THAT ALL UNVESTED OPTION SHARES ACQUIRED UPON THE EXERCISE OF THE OPTION SHALL NOT BE TRANSFERABLE AND SHALL BE SUBJECT TO REPURCHASE BY THE COMPANY, AT THE EXERCISE PRICE PAID PER SHARE, UPON OPTIONEE S TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS A MEMBER OF THE BOARD PRIOR TO VESTING IN THOSE SHARES. THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SUCH REPURCHASE RIGHT SHALL BE SPECIFIED IN A STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, EXECUTED BY OPTIONEE AT THE TIME OF THE OPTION EXERCISE. 
  Optionee understands and agrees that the Option is offered subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). Optionee further agrees to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the terms of the Option as set forth in the Stock Option Agreement attached hereto. 
  No Service Contract   . Nothing in this Notice or in the attached Stock Option Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon Optionee any right to continue to serve on the Board for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company or the Company s shareholders, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate Optionee s service on the Board at any time, for any reason, with or without cause, and in accordance with the provisions of applicable law. 
    
  Definitions   .   All capitalized terms in this Notice shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Notice, the attached Stock Option Agreement or the Plan. 
  DATED:                                ,            

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

By: 

Title: 

OPTIONEE 

1 

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Recitals 
  A. The Board has adopted the Plan for the purpose of retaining the services of selected Employees, non-employee members of the Board or of the board of directors of any Parent or Subsidiary and Consultants and other independent advisors who provide services to the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary). 
  B. Optionee is to render valuable services to the Company (or a Parent or Subsidiary), and this Agreement is executed pursuant to, and is intended to carry out the purposes of, the Plan in connection with the Company s grant of an option to Optionee. 
  C. All capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to them in this Agreement, the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Option (the   Notice ), or the Plan. 
  NOW, THEREFORE   , it is hereby agreed as follows: 
  1.     Grant of Option   . The Company hereby grants to Optionee, as of the Grant Date, a Nonstatutory Stock Option to purchase up to the number of Option Shares specified in the Notice. The Option Shares shall be purchasable from time to time during the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 at the Exercise Price specified in the Notice. 
  2.     Option Term   . This Option shall have a maximum term of nine (9) years measured from the Grant Date and shall accordingly expire at the close of business on the Expiration Date, unless sooner terminated in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5, 6 or 7. 
  3.     Non-Transferability   . This Option shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should the Optionee die while holding this Option, then this Option shall be transferred in accordance with Optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution. 
  4.     Exercisability/Vesting   . 
  (a) This Option shall be immediately exercisable for any or all of the Option Shares, whether or not the Option Shares are vested in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, and shall remain so exercisable until the Expiration Date or the sooner termination of the Option term under this Paragraph 4 or Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. 
  (b) Optionee shall, in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice, vest in the Option Shares in a series of installments over his or her period of Board service. Vesting in the Option Shares may be accelerated pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5, 6 or 7. In no event, however, shall any additional Option Shares vest following Optionee s cessation of service as a Board member. 
  (c) As an administrative matter, the exercisable portion of this Option may only be exercised until the close of the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Expiration Date or the earlier termination date under Paragraph 5, 6 or 7 or, if such date is not a trading day on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the last trading day before such date. Any later attempt to exercise this Option will not be honored. For example, if Optionee ceases to remain in service as provided in Paragraph 5(a) and the date twelve (12) months from the date of cessation is Monday, July 4 (a holiday on which the Nasdaq Global Select Market is closed), Optionee must exercise the exercisable portion of this Option by 4 pm Eastern Daylight Time on Friday, July 1. 
  5.     Cessation of Board Service   . Should Optionee s service as a Board member cease while this Option remains outstanding, then the Option term specified in Paragraph 2 shall terminate (and this Option shall cease to be outstanding) prior to the Expiration Date in accordance with the following provisions: 
  (a) Should Optionee cease to serve as a Board member for any reason (other than death or Disability) while this Option is outstanding, then the period for exercising this Option shall be reduced to a twelve (12)-month period commencing with the date of such cessation of Board service, but in no event shall this Option be exercisable at any time after the Expiration Date. During such limited period of exercisability, this Option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the number of Option Shares (if any) in which Optionee is vested on the date of his or her cessation of Board service. Upon the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of such twelve (12)-month period or (ii) the specified Expiration Date, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable with respect to any vested Option Shares for which the Option has not been exercised. 
  (b) Should Optionee die during the twelve (12)-month period following his or her cessation of Board service and hold this Option at the time of his or her death, then the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to Optionee s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares in which Optionee is vested at the time of Optionee s cessation of Board service (less any Option Shares purchased by Optionee after such cessation of Board service but prior to death). Such right of exercise shall terminate, and this Option shall accordingly cease to be exercisable for such vested Option Shares, upon the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date. 
    1 

(c) Should Optionee cease service as a Board member by reason of death or Disability, then all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall immediately vest in full so that Optionee (or the personal representative of Optionee s estate or the person or persons to whom the Option is transferred upon Optionee s death) shall have the right to exercise this Option for any or all of the Option Shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock at any time prior to the   earlier   of (i) the expiration of the twelve (12)-month period measured from the date of Optionee s cessation of Board service or (ii) the specified Expiration Date. 
  (d) Upon Optionee s cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or Disability, this Option shall immediately terminate and cease to be outstanding with respect to any and all Option Shares in which Optionee is not otherwise at that time vested in accordance with the normal Vesting Schedule set forth in the Notice or the special vesting acceleration provisions of Paragraph 6 or 7 below. 
  6.     Corporate Transaction   . 
  (a) In the event of a Corporate Transaction, all Option Shares at the time subject to this Option but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the specified effective date for the Corporate Transaction, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction, this Option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation or its parent company. 
  (b) If this Option is assumed in connection with a Corporate Transaction, then this Option shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have been issuable to Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had the Option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, and appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the Exercise Price,   provided   the aggregate Exercise Price shall remain the same. 
  7.     Change In Control/Hostile Take-Over   . 
  (a) All Option Shares subject to this Option at the time of a Change In Control but not otherwise vested shall automatically vest so that this Option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of such Change In Control, become fully exercisable for all of the Option Shares at the time subject to this Option and may be exercised for all or any portion of such shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. This Option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested Option Shares until the   earliest   to occur of (i) the specified Expiration Date, (ii) the sooner termination of this Option in accordance with Paragraph 4, 5 or 6 or (iii) the surrender of this Option under Paragraph 7(b). 
  (b) Optionee shall have an unconditional right (exercisable during the thirty (30)-day period immediately following the consummation of a  Hostile Take-Over  (as defined below)) to surrender this Option to the Company in exchange for a cash distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (i) the  Take-Over Price  (as defined below) of the Option Shares at the time subject to the surrendered Option (whether or not those Option Shares are otherwise at the time vested) over (ii) the aggregate Exercise Price payable for such shares. This Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right shall in all events terminate upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Option term and may not be assigned or transferred by Optionee. For purposes of this Option,  Hostile Take-Over  shall mean the acquisition, directly or indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the Company or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act) of securities possessing more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the Company s outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made directly to the Company s shareholders which the Board does not recommend such shareholders to accept. Further, for purposes of this Option,  Take-Over Price  shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market Value on the date the Option is surrendered to the Company in connection with a Hostile Take-Over, or (ii) the highest reported price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting the Hostile Take-Over. 
  (c) To exercise the Paragraph 7(b) limited stock appreciation right, Optionee must, during the applicable thirty (30)-day exercise period, provide the Company with written notice of the option surrender in which there is specified the number of Option Shares as to which the Option is being surrendered. Such notice must be accompanied by the return of Optionee s copy of this Agreement, together with any written amendments to such Agreement. The cash distribution shall be paid to Optionee within five (5) business days following such delivery date. Upon receipt of such cash distribution, this Option shall be cancelled with respect to the shares subject to the surrendered Option (or the surrendered portion), and Optionee shall cease to have any further right to acquire those Option Shares under this Agreement. The Option shall, however, remain outstanding for the balance of the Option Shares (if any) in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement, and the Company shall accordingly issue a new stock option agreement (substantially in the same form as this Agreement) for those remaining Option Shares. 
  8.     Adjustment in Option Shares   . In the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, a declaration of a dividend payable in a form other than Shares in an amount that has a material effect on the price of Shares, a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares (by reclassification or otherwise) into a lesser number of Shares, a recapitalization, a spin-off or a similar occurrence, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the total number and/or kind of shares or securities subject to this Option and (ii) the Exercise Price in order to reflect such change and thereby preclude a dilution or enlargement of benefits hereunder. 
  9.     Shareholder Rights   . The holder of this Option shall not have any shareholder rights with respect to the Option Shares until such person shall have exercised the Option, paid the Exercise Price and become a holder of record of the purchased Shares. 
  10.     Manner of Exercising Option   . 
    2 

(a) In order to exercise this Option with respect to all or any part of the Option Shares for which this Option is at the time exercisable, Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) must take the following actions: 
  (i) Pay the aggregate Exercise Price for the purchased Shares in one or more of the following forms: 
  (A) cash or check which, in the Company s sole discretion, shall be made payable to a Company-designated brokerage firm or the Company; and 
  (B) as permitted by applicable law, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant to which Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising the Option) shall concurrently provide irrevocable written instructions (I) to a Company-designated brokerage firm (or in the case of an executive officer or Board member of the Company, an Optionee-designated brokerage firm) to effect the immediate sale of the purchased Shares and remit to the Company, out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover the aggregate Exercise Price payable for the purchased Shares plus, if applicable, the amount necessary to satisfy the Company s withholding obligations at the minimum statutory withholding rates and (II) to the Company to deliver the certificates for the purchased Shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale transaction. 
  (ii) Furnish to the Company appropriate documentation that the person or persons exercising the Option (if other than Optionee) have the right to exercise this Option. 
  (iii) Make appropriate arrangements with the Company (or Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining Optionee) for the satisfaction of all tax withholding requirements applicable to the Option exercise. 
  (iv) To the extent that the option is exercised for one or more unvested Option Shares, Optionee (or other person exercising the option) shall deliver to the Secretary of the Company a purchase agreement for those unvested Option Shares. 
  (b) As soon as practical after the exercise date, the Company shall issue to or on behalf of Optionee (or any other person or persons exercising this Option) the purchased Option Shares (as evidenced by an appropriate entry on the books of the Company or a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), subject to the appropriate legends and/or stop transfer instructions. 
  (c) In no event may this Option be exercised for any fractional Shares. 
  11.     No Impairment of Rights   . This Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise make changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. In addition, nothing in this Agreement shall in any way be construed or interpreted so as to affect adversely or otherwise impair the right of the Company or the shareholders to remove Optionee from the Board at any time in accordance with the provisions of applicable law. 
  12.     Compliance with Laws and Regulations   . 
  (a) The exercise of this Option and the issuance of the Option Shares upon such exercise shall be subject to compliance by the Company and Optionee with all applicable laws, regulations and rules relating thereto, including all applicable regulations of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq Global Select Market, if applicable) on which the Shares may be listed for trading at the time of such exercise and issuance. 
  (b) The inability of the Company to obtain approval from any regulatory body having authority deemed by the Company to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares pursuant to this Option shall relieve the Company of any liability with respect to the non-issuance or sale of the Shares as to which such approval shall not have been obtained. The Company, however, shall use its best efforts to obtain all such approvals. 
    
  13.     Successors and Assigns   . Except to the extent otherwise provided in Paragraphs 3, 5, 6 and 7, the provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the Company and its successors and assigns and Optionee, Optionee s assigns and the legal representatives, heirs and legatees of Optionee s estate. 
  14.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to the Optionee at the address maintained for the Optionee in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  15.     Construction   . The Notice, this Agreement, and the Option evidenced hereby (a) are made and granted pursuant to the Plan and are in all respects limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan, and (b) constitute the entire agreement between Optionee and the Company on the subject matter hereof and supercede all proposals, written or oral, and all other communications between the parties related to the subject matter. All decisions of the Committee with respect to any question or issue arising under the Notice, this Agreement or the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons having an interest in this Option. 
    3 

16.     Governing Law   . The interpretation, performance and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without resort to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  17.     Excess Shares   . If the Option Shares covered by this Agreement exceed, as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares which may without shareholder approval be issued under the Plan, then this Option shall be void with respect to those excess shares, unless shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares issuable under the Plan is obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and all applicable laws, regulations and rules. 
  18.     Further Instruments   . The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement. 
    
    4 

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK GRANT 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK GRANT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Grant Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Grant Award are as follows: 

Grantee: 

Grant Date: 

Grant Number: 

Restricted Shares: 

Vest Date: 
      
    The completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the Grant Date. 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Shares   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby transfers to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, a Stock Grant Award consisting of the Restricted Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Shares   . So long as your service on the Board continues, the Restricted Shares shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: one-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Shares issued pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Vest Date, unless otherwise provided by the Plan or Section 3 below. Except as provided in Section 3 below, in the event of the termination of your Board service for any reason, all unvested Restricted Shares shall be immediately forfeited without consideration. For purposes of facilitating the enforcement of the provisions of this Section 2, the Company may issue stop-transfer instructions on the Restricted Shares to the Company s transfer agent, or otherwise hold the Restricted Shares in escrow, until the Restricted Shares have vested and you have satisfied all applicable obligations with respect to the Restricted Shares, including any applicable tax withholding obligations set forth in Section 5 below. Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property which is issued or distributed with respect to the unvested Restricted Shares shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as are applicable to the unvested Restricted Shares under this Agreement and the Plan. 
  3.     Special Acceleration   . 
  (a) To the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding at the time of a Corporate Transaction or a Change in Control, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction or the Change in Control, as the case may be, and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (b) If your service on the Board ceases as a result of your death or Disability then, to the extent the Restricted Shares are outstanding, but not otherwise fully vested, such Restricted Shares shall automatically accelerate and shall become vested in full at that time. 
  (c) This Stock Grant Agreement shall not in any way affect the right of the Company to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. 
  4.     Restriction on Election to Recognize Income in the Year of Grant   . Under Section 83 of the Code, the Fair Market Value of the Restricted Shares on the date the Restricted Shares vest will be taxable as ordinary income at that time. You understand, acknowledge and agree that, as a condition to the grant of this Award, you may not elect to be taxed at the time the Restricted Shares are acquired by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code with the Internal Revenue Service. 
  5.     Withholding Taxes   . You agree to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the satisfaction of any applicable withholding tax obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Shares which, at the sole discretion of the Company, may include (i) having the Company withhold Shares from the Restricted Shares held in escrow, or (ii) any other arrangement approved by the Company, in any case, equal in value to the amount necessary to satisfy any such withholding tax obligation. Such Shares shall be valued based on the Fair Market  
    1 

Value as of the day prior to the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined under applicable law. The Company shall not be required to release the Restricted Shares from the stop-transfer instructions or escrow unless and until such obligations are satisfied. 
  6.     Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY STOCK GRANT AWARD. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES. 
  7.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Shares   . Restricted Shares which have not vested pursuant to Section 2 above shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by the operation of law. However, this Section 7 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive any vested Restricted Shares in the event of the your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Restricted Shares by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. 
  8.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Restricted Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law. 
  9.     Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends   . Stock certificates evidencing the Restricted Shares may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
  10.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Restricted Shares may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  11.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall have all the rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the Restricted Shares are subject to stop-transfer instructions, or otherwise held in escrow, including the right to vote and to receive dividends (if any). 
  12.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of this Stock Grant Award under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to this Stock Grant Award or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan. 
  (b) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting your local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from this Stock Grant Award, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
  13.     No Entitlement or Claims for Compensation   . 
  (a) Your rights, if any, in respect of or in connection with this Stock Grant Award or any other Award is derived solely from the discretionary decision of the Company to permit you to participate in the Plan and to benefit from a discretionary Award. By accepting this Stock Grant Award, you expressly acknowledge that there is no obligation on the part of the Company to continue the Plan and/or grant any additional Awards to you. This Stock Grant Award is not intended to be compensation of a continuing or recurring nature, or part of your normal or expected compensation, and in no way represents any portion of a your salary, compensation, or other remuneration for purposes of pension benefits, severance, redundancy, resignation or any other purpose. 
  (b) Neither the Plan nor this Stock Grant Award or any other Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give you a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or director of the Company, a Parent, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate. The Company and its Parents and Subsidiaries and Affiliates reserve the right to terminate your Service at any time, with or without cause, and for any reason, subject to applicable laws, the Company s Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and a written employment agreement (if any), and you shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived any claim to damages or specific performance for breach of contract or dismissal, compensation for  
    2 

loss of office, tort or otherwise with respect to the Plan, this Stock Grant Award or any outstanding Award that is forfeited and/or is terminated by its terms or to any future Award. 
  (c) You agree that the Company may require that Restricted Shares be held by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, you agree that your rights hereunder shall be subject to set-off by the Company for any valid debts you owe the Company. 
  14.     Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  15.     Notices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  16.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  17.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 
    
  DATED:                              ,            

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

By: 

Title: 

GRANTEE 

3 

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK UNIT 
  IN LIEU OF ANNUAL RETAINER 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT 
  This Stock Unit Agreement (the  Agreement ) is made and entered into as of the Grant Date (as defined below) by and between Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation (the  Company ), and you pursuant to the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ). The material terms of this Stock Unit Award are as follows: 

Grantee: 

Grant Date: 

Grant Number: 

Restricted Stock Units: 

To the extent any capitalized terms used in this Agreement are not defined, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms and provisions of the Plan and the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Plan terms and provisions shall prevail. 
  In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties agree as follows: 
  1.     Restricted Stock Units   . Pursuant to the Plan, the Company hereby grants to you, and you hereby accept from the Company, Restricted Stock Units, each of which is a bookkeeping entry representing the equivalent in value of one (1) Share, on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. 
  2.     Vesting of Restricted Stock Units   . One-hundred percent (100%) of the total number of Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Agreement shall vest on the Grant Date. 
  3.     Settlement of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall be automatically settled in Shares upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A ( Separation from Service ), provided that the Company shall have no obligation to issue Shares pursuant to this Agreement unless and until you have satisfied any applicable tax withholding obligations and such issuance otherwise complies with all applicable law. 
  4.     Tax Advice   . You represent, warrant and acknowledge that the Company has made no warranties or representations to you with respect to the income tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and you are in no manner relying on the Company or the Company s representatives for an assessment of such tax consequences. YOU UNDERSTAND THAT THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. YOU SHOULD CONSULT YOUR OWN TAX ADVISOR REGARDING ANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. NOTHING STATED HEREIN IS INTENDED OR WRITTEN TO BE USED, AND CANNOT BE USED, FOR THE PURPOSE OF AVOIDING TAXPAYER PENALTIES.  
  5.     Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units   . Restricted Stock Units shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law. However, this Section 5 shall not preclude you from designating a beneficiary who will receive vested Shares pursuant to this award in the event of your death, nor shall it preclude a transfer of vested Shares pursuant to this award by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. 
  6.     Restriction on Transfer   . Regardless of whether the transfer or issuance of the Shares to be issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units has been registered under the Securities Act or has been registered or qualified under the securities laws of any state, the Company may impose additional restrictions upon the sale, pledge, or other transfer of the Shares (including the placement of appropriate legends on stock certificates and the issuance of stop-transfer instructions to the Company s transfer agent) if, in the judgment of the Company and the Company s counsel, such restrictions are necessary in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of the Securities Act, the securities laws of any state, or any other law. 
  7.     Stock Certificate Restrictive Legends     .   Stock certificates evidencing the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may bear such restrictive legends as the Company and the Company s counsel deem necessary under applicable law or pursuant to this Agreement. 
    1 

8.     Representations, Warranties, Covenants, and Acknowledgments   . You hereby agree that in the event the Company and the Company s counsel deem it necessary or advisable in the exercise of their discretion, the transfer or issuance of the Shares issued pursuant to the Restricted Stock Units may be conditioned upon you making certain representations, warranties, and acknowledgments relating to compliance with applicable securities laws. 
  9.     Voting and Other Rights   . Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you shall not have any voting rights or any other rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company unless and until the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your Separation from Service. 
  10.     Authorization to Release Necessary Personal Information   . 
  (a) You hereby authorize and direct the Company to collect, use and transfer in electronic or other form, any personal information (the  Data ) regarding your service, the nature and amount of your compensation and the facts and conditions of your participation in the Plan (including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social security number (or any other social or national identification number), compensation, nationality, job title, number of Shares held and the details of all Awards or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, cancelled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that the Data may be transferred to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, including any requisite transfer to a broker or other third party assisting with the administration of these Restricted Stock Units under the Plan or with whom Shares acquired pursuant to these Restricted Stock Units or cash from the sale of such shares may be deposited. You acknowledge that recipients of the Data may be located in different countries, and those countries may have data privacy laws and protections different from those in the country of your residence. Furthermore, you acknowledge and understand that the transfer of the Data to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or to any third parties is necessary for your participation in the Plan.  
  (b) Prior to the time that the Restricted Stock Units are settled in Shares upon your Separation from Service, you shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Company. The Restricted Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company. 
  (c) You may at any time withdraw the consents herein by contacting the Company s local human resources representative in writing. You further acknowledge that withdrawal of consent may affect your ability to exercise or realize benefits from these Restricted Stock Units, and your ability to participate in the Plan. 
  11.     Governing Law   . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof. 
  12.     N  otices   . Any notice required or permitted under the terms of this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by confirmed email, telegram, or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the Company at the Company s principal corporate offices or to you at the address maintained for you in the Company s records or, in either case, as subsequently modified by written notice to the other party. 
  13.     Binding Effect   . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the executors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives, successors, and assigns of the parties hereto. 
  14.     Severability   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable for any reason, it shall be adjusted rather than voided, if possible, in order to achieve the intent of the parties to the extent possible. In any event, all other provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed valid and enforceable to the full extent possible. 

DATED: 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 

By: 

Title: 

GRANTEE 

2 

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE  
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  INITIAL EQUITY AWARD 
  I, ________________________________, being a prospective newly elected or appointed non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby (check one):    
   (i) ___   ELECT   or (ii) ___   DO NOT ELECT    to defer the settlement of my total initial restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on the date of my election or appointment in connection with my initial election or appointment as a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
  This election will be effective only if received by Cisco's Legal Department on or before the date of my election or appointment. 
  If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, my initial restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company's common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the below described vesting date of the restricted stock unit grant. 
  My initial restricted stock unit grant will vest in full at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders following my initial election or appointment date (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement.  I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited. 
  I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, the grant will not be settled in shares of the Company's common stock upon the above-described vesting date, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company's common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). 
  I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, dividends or dividend equivalents will not accrue during the deferral period. 
  I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company's common stock pursuant to any deferred stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the deferred stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company's common stock. 

Signature of Non-Employee Director                    Date 

* Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections. 

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  ANNUAL RETAINER   EQUITY AWARD 
  ANNUAL RETAINER 
  I, ________________________________, being a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby make the following election.  
  Please choose (a)   or   (b) below.   
           (a) 
    _____ I elect to receive my   full   annual retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders   in cash  .     
              (b) 
    _____ I elect to receive _____% (  insert a percentage between 25% and 100%  ) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders, in the form of  : 
     Please choose either (i)   or   (ii) below. 
           (i) 
    ____ fully vested shares, which will be given to me under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on November __, 20__ based on the closing value of the Company's common stock on that date (the  Fair Market Value    OR 
              (ii) 
    ____ a fully vested   deferred   stock unit grant which will be granted under the Plan on November __, 20__ based on the Fair Market Value. 
     I understand that, to the extent I do not elect to receive all or any portion of my annual retainer in the form of either (i) shares or (ii) a   deferred   stock unit grant, I will receive such retainer   in cash   on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders on __________, 20__.  If I make no election, I will receive my   full   annual retainer   in cash  . 
  I understand that, if I elect to receive shares, I will receive the shares on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual shareholder meeting and that my receipt of shares will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date of grant. 
  I understand that, if I elect to receive a   deferred   stock unit grant, any such grant will be settled in shares of the Company's common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). 
  I understand that if I elect to receive a   deferred   stock unit grant, dividends or dividend equivalents will   not   accrue during the deferral period. 
  I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company's common stock pursuant to any   deferred   stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the   deferred   stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company's common stock. 
    
    1 

ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD 
  I further (check one) (i) ___   ELECT   or (ii) ___   DO NOT ELECT   to defer the settlement of my total annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on __________, 20__ immediately following the Company's 20__ Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
  If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my annual restricted stock unit grant, the above-mentioned annual restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company's common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant upon the completion of one year of Board service following the date of grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement.  I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited. 
  I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned annual restricted stock unit grant, the grant will not be settled in shares of the Company's common stock upon the above-described vesting date, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company's common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). 
  I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of my annual restricted stock unit grant, dividends or dividend equivalents will   not   accrue during the deferral period. 
  I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company's common stock pursuant to any   deferred   stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the   deferred   stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company's common stock. 
    
  I understand that these elections will be effective only if received by _____________________________ on or before ____________ [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]]. 

Signature of Non-Employee Director                    Date 

* Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. can not provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections. 
    
    2 

(For Elections Prior to February 2013) 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  INITIAL EQUITY AWARD 
  I,                                                               , being a prospective newly elected or appointed non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to defer the settlement of my total initial restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                              in connection with my initial election or appointment as a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of the Company. 
  This election will be effective only if received by                                                               on or before                                                               [the date of the non-employee director s election or appointment]. 
  If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, the restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the below described vesting dates of the restricted stock unit grant. 
  Fifty percent (50%) of my initial restricted stock unit grant will vest upon the completion of one year of Board service measured from my initial appointment or election date and the remaining fifty percent (50%) will vest upon my completion of one year of Board service thereafter (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, any unvested portion will be forfeited. 
  I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of my initial restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above mentioned vesting dates, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). 
  I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock. 
    
  Signature of Non-Employee Director                                    Date 
    
  * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. cannot provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections. 

(For Elections Prior to February 2013) 
  NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR ELECTION UNDER THE 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
  ANNUAL RETAINER   EQUITY AWARD 
  ANNUAL RETAINER 
  I,                                                               , being a non-employee member of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby elect to receive (complete   either   (a) or (b) below): 
    
                 (a) 
               % (insert 0%   OR   a percentage between 25% and 100%) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders; 

(b) 
    $                  (insert $0 OR a dollar amount between $18,750 and $75,000) of my total annual retainer for the next year of Board service commencing at the next annual meeting of shareholders; 

in the form of (check either (i) or (ii) below): 
  (i)                  a fully vested deferred stock unit grant which will be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on November           , 200        based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date; 
  (ii)                  a fully vested stock grant which will be granted under the Plan on November           , 200        based on the closing value of the Company s common stock on that date. 
  I understand that this election will be effective only if received by                                          on or before                          [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]]. 
  I further understand that I will receive my annual retainer in the form of cash to the extent that I do not elect to receive it in the form of a stock unit grant or stock grant under the Plan on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual meeting of shareholders on                          , 20          . 
  I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock unit grant, any such stock unit grant will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). 
  I further understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock. 
  I understand that, if I elect to receive a stock grant, I will receive the shares representing any such stock grant on, or as soon as practicable after, the date of the annual shareholder meeting and that my receipt of a stock grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date of grant. 
  ANNUAL EQUITY AWARD 
  I further (check one) (i)                 ELECT   or (ii)                 DO NOT ELECT   to defer the settlement of my total annual restricted stock unit award anticipated to be granted under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) on                          , 20          immediately following the Company s 20          Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
  I understand that this election will be effective only if received by                                          on or before                          [December 31, [PRECEDING YEAR]]. 
  If I do not elect to defer the settlement of my annual restricted stock unit grant, the above-mentioned restricted stock unit grant will be automatically settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, the vesting of the restricted stock unit grant upon the completion of one year of Board service following the date of grant (subject to acceleration in certain cases), as more fully set forth in the Stock Unit Agreement. I understand that if my  separation from service  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Separation from Service ) occurs before my restricted stock unit grant vests, the grant will be forfeited. 
  I understand that if I elect to defer the settlement of the above-mentioned annual restricted stock unit grant, any vested portion of my restricted stock unit grant will not be settled in shares of the Company s common stock upon the above-described vesting date, but instead will be settled in shares of the Company s common stock on, or as soon as practicable after, my Separation from Service (which generally will be the date my service as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company terminates). 
    1 

I understand that my receipt of shares of the Company s common stock pursuant to any stock unit grant will be taxed as ordinary income to me based on the value of the shares on the date the stock unit grant is settled and I receive shares of the Company s common stock. 

Signature of Non-Employee Director                             Date 
    
  * Because individual circumstances vary, Cisco Systems, Inc. cannot provide tax advice and you should consult with your own tax advisor regarding the income tax consequences of your potential elections. 
    
    2 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  VESTING ACCELERATION POLICY 
  FOR 
  DEATH AND TERMINAL ILLNESS 
  AS 
  AMENDED SEPTEMBER 8, 2011 
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation. 
  For purposes of this policy: 

the value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is based on the difference between the exercise price of the equity awards and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; and 

the value of stock grants, stock units, and unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to equity awards (such shares are referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) is based on the difference between the purchase price, if any, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death or terminal illness, as applicable, or if such day is not a trading day, the last trading day prior to the date of death or terminal illness, as applicable; 

unvested equity award shares  includes outstanding and unvested performance-based restricted stock or stock unit awards and the accelerated vesting of such awards will be deemed to occur at target levels, subject to the specified limits below; and 

to the extent the vesting of any performance-based restricted stock or stock unit award is accelerated pursuant to this policy, the award will be settled upon the death or terminal illness of an employee, as the case may be, except that if the applicable award is subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ( Code Section 409A ) and such terminal illness does not qualify as a  Disability  within the meaning of Code Section 409A, then the award will instead be settled on the fixed payment date following the end of the performance period on which the applicable award is normally paid out. 

ACCELERATION UPON DEATH OF EMPLOYEE 
  Upon the death of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of death. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of death as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee held unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date of the employee s death was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000). 
  ACCELERATION UPON TERMINAL ILLNESS OF EMPLOYEE 
  Upon the terminal illness of an employee, Cisco will accelerate the vesting of the employee s outstanding equity awards and any unvested equity award shares up to a specified limit based on the value of the equity awards and/or shares on the date of the terminal illness. An employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s employee life insurance provider of the accelerated life insurance benefit which indicates 12 months or less to live. When a request is made to accelerate the vesting of an employee s outstanding equity awards and early life insurance payouts are not also requested, an employee will be considered terminally ill upon the approval by Cisco s external, independent medical review vendor (which may include Cisco s employee life insurance provider). The date of terminal illness will be the date the determination is made by Cisco s employee life insurance provider or Cisco s external, independent medical review vendor. The limit on the amount of accelerated vesting is the greater of: (a) one-hundred percent (100%) of the unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares up to a total value of $10 million; or (b) up to one year of vesting from the date of the terminal illness as to all unvested equity awards and/or unvested equity award shares. For example, if an employee holds unvested options for 100,000 shares with an exercise price of $1 which would vest in four annual installments of 25,000 shares, and the closing price of Cisco s stock on the date that the employee is determined to be terminally ill was $101, all 100,000 of the shares would become vested (100,000 shares x $100 (the difference between $101 and $1) = $10,000,000). 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  VESTING POLICY 
  FOR 
  LEAVES OF ABSENCE 
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation. 
  (Effective until approximately November 2008) 
  SUSPENSION OF VESTING UPON AUTHORIZED LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
  The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall be suspended as of the first day of the authorized leave of absence, and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the period the employee remains on such leave of absence. 
  (Effective in or around November 2008) 
  90 DAYS CONTINUED VESTING ON AUTHORIZED LEAVES OF ABSENCE 
  The exercise or vesting schedule in effect for any outstanding equity award and any unvested shares previously acquired pursuant to any equity award (such shares referred to herein as  unvested equity award shares ) held by an employee at the time of the employee s commencement of an authorized leave of absence shall continue to vest and/or become exercisable in accordance with the vesting schedule set forth in the applicable equity award agreement during the period the employee remains on such authorized leave of absence; provided that, in no event shall any employee be entitled to vest for more than 90 days of authorized leaves of absence during any rolling 12-month period (the  LOA Limit ). 
  If an employee exceeds the LOA Limit during any rolling 12-month period, the unvested equity award shares held by such an employee shall be suspended immediately following the expiration of the LOA Limit and the equity award and any unvested equity shares shall not vest and/or become exercisable for any additional shares during the remainder of the rolling 12-month period. 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  TRANSFER POLICY 
  FOR 
  DIVORCE 
  Unless and until the Compensation   Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc. determines otherwise, the following policy shall be applied to all equity awards issued under any equity plan maintained Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary, including equity awards and/or equity plans assumed by Cisco in connection with its acquisition of companies, and held by any employee of Cisco or any Cisco subsidiary (each such award shall be referred to herein as an  equity award ), except to the extent that the application of such policy would be prohibited by the applicable equity plan, equity award agreement or any applicable law, rule or regulation. 
  PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF EQUITY AWARDS UPON DIVORCE 
  Except as provided below, equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards shall not be anticipated, assigned, attached, garnished, optioned, transferred or made subject to any creditor s process in connection with the divorce of the holder of such equity award or shares. Equity awards and any unvested shares acquired pursuant to equity awards may be transferred by an executive officer of Cisco only to the extent required by a domestic relations order, as defined by the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder, in settlement of marital property rights by any court of competent jurisdiction. 

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 exh107-ciscosystemsincdefe.htm
 CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN, AS AMENDED

Exh. 10.7-Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, As Amended 

Cisco Systems, Inc.                                  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan                                    

Exhibit 10.7 

Amended and Restated 
  Effective January 1, 2013 

Cisco Systems, Inc.                                  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan                                    

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

ARTICLE 1 
      
    DEFINITIONS 
    1 

ARTICLE 2 
      
    SELECTION, ENROLLMENT, ELIGIBILITY 
    4 
        
    2.1 
    Selection by 401(k) Administration Committee 
    4 
        
    2.2 
    Enrollment and Eligibility Requirements; Commencement of Participation 
    4 

ARTICLE 3 
      
    DEFERRAL COMMITMENTS/COMPANY CONTRIBUTION AMOUNTS/ 
    6 

COMPANY MATCHING AMOUNTS/ VESTING/CREDITING/TAXES 

3.1 
    Annual Deferral Amount 
    6 

3.2 
    Maximum Deferral 
    6 
        
    3.3 
    Election to Defer; Effect of Election Form 
    6 
        
    3.4 
    Withholding and Crediting of Annual Deferral Amounts 
    7 
        
    3.5 
    Company Matching Amount 
    7 
        
    3.6 
    Discretionary Company Contribution Amount 
    7 

3.7 
    Crediting of Amounts after Benefit Distribution 
    8 

3.8 
    Vesting 
    8 

3.9 
    Crediting/Debiting of Account Balances 
    8 

3.10 
    FICA and Other Taxes 
    9 

ARTICLE 4 
      
    SCHEDULED DISTRIBUTION; UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCIES 
    10 

4.1 
    Scheduled Distribution 
    10 

4.2 
    Postponing Scheduled Distributions 
    10 

4.3 
    Other Benefits Take Precedence Over Scheduled Distributions 
    10 

4.4 
    Scheduled Distributions and Former Scientific-Atlanta Participants 
    11 

4.5 
    Unforeseeable Emergencies 
    11 

ARTICLE 5 
      
    TERMINATION BENEFIT 
    11 

5.1 
    Termination Benefit 
    11 

i 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.                                  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan                                    

ii 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.                                  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan                                    

iii 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.                                  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan                                    

iv 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2009 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  Amended and Restated 
  Effective January 1, 2013 

Purpose 
  The purpose of this Plan is to provide specified benefits to a select group of management or highly compensated Employees who contribute materially to the continued growth, development and future business success of Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation, and its subsidiaries, if any, that participate in this Plan.  This Plan shall be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA.  This Plan is intended to comply with all applicable law, including Code Section 409A, and shall be operated and interpreted in accordance with this intention.  Effective January 1, 2009, this Plan was amended and restated to reflect the Plan's merger with the Scientific-Atlanta Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, effective May 15, 2002 (the  SA Grandfathered Plan ) and the Scientific-Atlanta 2005 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated, effective January 1, 2008 (the  SA Post-2004 Plan ).  Effective January 1, 2013 this Plan is hereby amended and restated to make certain changes to the administrative provisions of the Plan. 
  ARTICLE 1 
  Definitions 
  For purposes of this Plan, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context, the following phrases or terms shall have the following indicated meanings: 
           1.1 
       Account Balance    shall mean, with respect to a Participant, an entry on the records of the Employer equal to the sum of (i) the Deferral Account balance and (ii) the Company Contributions Account balance.  The Account Balance shall be a bookkeeping entry only and shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to a Participant, or his or her designated Beneficiary, pursuant to this Plan. 
              1.2 
       Annual Deferral Amount    shall mean that portion of a Participant's Base Salary, Bonus and Commissions that a Participant defers in accordance with Article 3 for any one Plan Year. 
              1.3 
       Base Salary    shall mean the annual cash compensation relating to services performed during any calendar year, excluding distributions from nonqualified deferred compensation plans, Bonuses, Commissions, overtime, fringe benefits, stock options and other equity awards, relocation expenses, incentive payments, non-monetary awards, and automobile and other allowances paid to a Participant for employment services rendered (whether or not such allowances are included in the Employee's gross income).  Base Salary shall be calculated before reduction for compensation voluntarily deferred or contributed by the Participant pursuant to all qualified or nonqualified plans of any Employer and shall be calculated to include amounts not otherwise included in the Participant's gross income under Code Sections 125, 132, 402(e)(3), 402(h), or 403(b) pursuant to plans or arrangements established by any Employer; provided, however, that all such amounts will be included in compensation only to the extent that had there been no such plan, the amount would have been payable in cash to the Employee.  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary,  
       1 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Base Salary  shall not include any amount paid pursuant to a disability plan or pursuant to a disability insurance policy. 
           1.4 
       Beneficiary    shall mean one or more persons, trusts, estates or other entities, designated in accordance with Article 8, that are entitled to receive benefits under this Plan upon the death of a Participant. 
              1.5 
       Beneficiary Designation Form    shall mean the form, which may be in electronic format, that a Participant completes to designate one or more Beneficiaries in accordance with such procedures established by the Company. 
              1.6 
       Benefit Distribution Date    shall mean the date that the distribution of all or a portion of a Participant's vested Account Balance becomes payable under the Plan.  A Participant's Benefit Distribution Date shall be determined based on the event giving rise to the distribution as more fully described in Articles 4 through 7. 
              1.7 
       Board    shall mean the board of directors of the Company. 
              1.8 
       Bonus    shall mean any compensation, earned and payable to a Participant under any incentive pay program other than those programs designated by the Company as ineligible for deferral under the Plan. 
               1.10 
       Code    shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as it may be amended from time to time.  The definition of  Code  shall also include related guidance, rules and regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service thereunder. 
              1.11 
       Commissions    shall mean pay other than Base Pay or Bonuses which is designated as commission payments under an Employer's payroll systems. 
              1.12 
       Committee    shall mean the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board. 
              1.13 
       Company    shall mean Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation, and any successor to all or substantially all of the Company's assets or business.  With regard to the administration of the Plan,  Company  shall mean the 401(k) Plan Administration Committee (the  401(k) Administration Committee ). 
              1.14 
       Company Contributions Account    shall mean (i) the sum of all of a Participant's Company Matching Amounts, plus (ii) the sum of all Discretionary Company Contributions, plus (iii) amounts credited or debited to the Participant's Company Contributions Account in accordance with this Plan, less (iv) all distributions made to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary pursuant to this Plan that relate to the Participant's Company Contributions Account. 
              1.15 
       Company Matching Amount    shall mean, for any one Plan Year, the amount determined in accordance with Section 3.5. 
              1.16 
       Death Benefit    shall mean the benefit set forth in Article 7. 
              1.17 
       Deferral Account    shall mean (i) the sum of all of a Participant's Annual Deferral Amounts, plus (ii) amounts credited or debited to the Participant's Deferral Account in accordance with this Plan, less (iii) all distributions made to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary pursuant to this Plan that relate to his or her Deferral Account. 
              1.18 
       Disability    or    Disabled    shall have the meaning set forth in Code Section 409A. 
       2 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

1.19 
       Disability Benefit    shall mean the benefit set forth in Article 6. 
              1.20 
       Discretionary Company Contribution Amount    shall mean, for any one Plan Year, the amount determined in accordance with Section 3.6. 
               1.22 
       Election Form    shall mean the form, which may be in electronic format, that a Participant completes in accordance with such procedures established by the Company. 
              1.23 
       Employee    shall mean a person who is an employee of any Employer. 
              1.24 
       Employer(s)    shall mean the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries (now in existence or hereafter formed or acquired) that have been selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan and have adopted the Plan as a participating Employer. 
              1.25 
       ERISA    shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as it may be amended from time to time.  The definition of  ERISA  shall also include related guidance, rules and regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Labor thereunder. 
              1.26 
        401(k) Plan    shall mean, with respect to an Employer, a plan qualified under Code Section 401(a) that contains a cash or deferral arrangement described in Code Section 401(k), adopted by the Employer, as it may be amended from time to time, or any successor thereto. 
              1.27 
       Installment Method    shall be an installment payment over the number of years selected by the Participant     in accordance with this Plan.  Such amounts shall be paid in quarterly, semi-annual or annual payments (over a period not to exceed ten (10) years).  The amount of each installment shall be calculated by dividing the amount then subject to the installment payment by the number of installments then remaining to be made.  The amount subject to installment payments that has not yet been paid shall continue to be credited/debited with additional amounts in accordance with Section 3.9.  For purposes of this Plan, the right to receive benefit payments in installment payments shall be treated as the entitlement to a single payment. 
              1.28 
       Participant    shall mean any Employee who is on the United States payroll of an Employer and (i) who is selected to participate in the Plan, (ii) who submits an executed Plan Agreement and Election Form, and (iii) whose Plan Agreement has not terminated. 
              1.29 
       Plan    shall mean the Cisco Systems, Inc. 2009 Deferred Compensation Plan, which shall be evidenced by this instrument and by each Plan Agreement, as they may be amended from time to time. 
              1.30 
       Plan Agreement    shall mean a written agreement, as may be amended from time to time, which is entered into by and between an Employer and a Participant.  Each Plan Agreement executed by a Participant and the Participant's Employer shall provide for the entire benefit to which such Participant is entitled under the Plan; should there be more than one Plan Agreement, the Plan Agreement bearing the latest date of acceptance by the Employer shall supersede all previous Plan Agreements in their entirety and shall govern such entitlement.  The terms of any Plan Agreement may be different for any Participant, and any Plan Agreement may provide additional benefits not set forth in the Plan or limit the benefits otherwise provided under the Plan; provided, however, that any such additional benefits or benefit limitations must be agreed to by both the Employer and the Participant. 
              1.31 
       Plan Year    shall mean a period beginning on January 1 of each calendar year and continuing through December 31 of such calendar year. 
       3 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

1.32 
       SA Grandfathered Plan    shall mean the Scientific-Atlanta Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective May 15, 2002. 
               1.34 
       Scheduled Distribution    shall mean the distribution set forth in Section 4.1. 
               1.36 
       Supplement B    shall mean the supplement to this Plan governing the time and form of payments for participants of the SA Grandfathered Plan, with amounts deferred before January 1, 2005. 
              1.37 
       Termination Benefit    shall mean the benefit set forth in Article 5 which shall be paid following a Participant's Termination of Employment. 
              1.38 
       Termination of Employment    shall mean the separation from service with all Employers, voluntarily or involuntarily, for any reason other than Disability or death, as determined in accordance with Code Section 409A.  For this purpose, the definition of  service recipient  for purposes of determining whether a separation from service has occurred for purposes of Code Section 409A shall be determined by utilizing the twenty percent (20%) tests described in section 1.409A-1(h) of the Code Section 409A regulations to the extent permitted under such regulations. 
              1.39 
       Unforeseeable Emergency    shall mean a severe financial hardship of the Participant or his or her Beneficiary resulting from (i) an illness or accident of the Participant or Beneficiary, the Participant's or Beneficiary's spouse, or the Participant's or Beneficiary's dependent (as defined in Code Section 152(a)), (ii) a loss of the Participant's or Beneficiary's property due to casualty, or (iii) such other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary.  
       
  ARTICLE 2 
  Selection, Enrollment, Eligibility 
           2.1 
    Selection by 401(k) Administration Committee  .  Participation in the Plan shall be limited to a select group of management or highly compensated Employees.  From that group, the 401(k) Administration Committee shall select, in its sole discretion, those individuals who may actually participate in this Plan.     
              2.2 
    Enrollment and Eligibility Requirements; Commencement of Participation  .    As a condition to participation, each selected Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan effective as of the first day of a Plan Year shall complete a Plan Agreement and an Election Form, prior to the first day of such Plan Year, or such other earlier deadline as may be established by the Company in its sole discretion.  In addition, the Company shall establish from time to time such other enrollment requirements as it determines, in its sole discretion, are necessary.   
              (a) 
    Each selected Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan shall commence participation in the Plan on the date that the Employee has met all enrollment requirements  
       4 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

set forth in this Plan and required by the Company, including completing all required documents within the specified time period(s). 
           (b) 
    A newly hired Employee who is selected to participate in the Plan who first becomes a Participant after the beginning of a Plan Year must complete a Plan Agreement and an Election Form within thirty (30) days after he or she first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, or within such other earlier deadline as may be established by the Company, in its sole discretion, in order to participate for that Plan Year.  In such event, such person's participation in this Plan shall not commence earlier than the date determined by the Company pursuant to Section 2.2(a) and such person shall not be permitted to defer under this Plan any portion of his or her Base Salary or Commissions that are paid with respect to services performed prior to his or her participation commencement date, except to the extent permissible under Code Section 409A.  Except as otherwise permitted by the Company (and in accordance with Code Section 409A), a Participant described in this Section 2.2(b) shall not be permitted to make a deferral election with respect to Bonuses for the first Plan Year in which he or she is eligible to participate.  Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, a newly hired Employee who is in a classification of Employees otherwise eligible to participate in the Plan shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the first business day of the month following the month which contains the Employee's date of hire. 
              (c) 
    A newly eligible Employee who is selected to participate in the Plan as a result of a promotion, or other change in employment status resulting in the individual first being eligible to participate in the Plan after the beginning of a Plan Year, must complete a Plan Agreement and an Election Form within thirty (30) days after he or she first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, or within such other earlier deadline as may be established by the Company, in its sole discretion, in order to participate for that Plan Year.  In such event, such person's participation in this Plan shall not commence earlier than the date determined by the Company pursuant to Section 2.2(a) and such person shall not be permitted to defer under this Plan any portion of his or her Base Salary or Commissions that are paid with respect to services performed prior to his or her participation commencement date, except to the extent permissible under Code Section 409A.  Except as otherwise permitted by the Company (and in accordance with Code Section 409A), a Participant described in this Section 2.2(c) shall not be permitted to make a deferral election with respect to Bonuses for the first Plan Year in which he or she is eligible to participate.  Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, Employees described in this Section 2.2(c) shall first become eligible to participate in the Plan as of the first business day of the month following the month in which the later of (i) the corporate action occurs which results in the Employee first becoming eligible to participate in the Plan; and (ii) the effective date of the Employee's promotion or other change in employment status. 
              (d) 
    If an Employee fails to meet all requirements contained in this Section 2.2 within the period(s) required, that Employee shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan during such Plan Year. 
       5 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

ARTICLE 3 
  Deferral Commitments/Company Contribution Amounts/ 
  Company Matching Amounts/ Vesting/Crediting/Taxes 
           3.1 
    Annual Deferral Amount  .  For each Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer as his or her Annual Deferral Amount, Base Salary, Bonus and/or Commissions pursuant to such rules as may be established by the Company in accordance with Code Section 409A.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Participant may not defer his or her severance payments (if any) under the Plan.  Such Annual Deferral Amount may be subject to a minimum deferral amount established by the Company. 
               (a) 
    Annual Deferral Amount  .  For each Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer, as his or her Annual Deferral Amount, Base Salary, Bonus and/or Commissions, pursuant to such rules as may be established by the Company, up to the following maximum percentages for each deferral elected:  

(b) 
    Short Plan Year  .  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, if a Participant first becomes a Participant after the first day of a Plan Year, the maximum Annual Deferral Amount shall be limited to the amount of compensation not yet earned by the Participant as of the date the Participant submits a Plan Agreement and Election Form, except to the extent permissible under Code Section 409A.  Solely to the extent required under Code Section 409A, with respect to compensation that is earned based upon a specified performance period, the Participant's deferral election will apply to the portion of such compensation that is equal to (i) the total amount of compensation for the performance period, multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days remaining in the performance period after the Participant's deferral election is made, and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the performance period. 
              3.3 
    Election to Defer; Effect of Election Form  . 
              (a) 
    Initial Plan Year  .  In connection with a Participant's commencement of participation in the Plan, the Participant shall make an irrevocable deferral election for the Plan Year in which the Participant commences participation in the Plan, along with such other elections as the Company deems necessary or desirable under the Plan.  For these elections to be valid, the Election Form must be completed by the Participant, in accordance with Section 2.2 above. 
              (b) 
    General Timing Rule for Deferral Elections in Subsequent Plan Years  .  For each succeeding Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer Base Salary, Bonus and Commissions, and make such other elections as the Company deems necessary or desirable under the Plan by timely completing a new Election Form, in accordance with the Company's rules and procedures, before December 31   st    preceding the Plan Year in which such compensation is earned, or before such other deadline established in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 409A. 
       6 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Any deferral election(s) made in accordance with this Section 3.3(b) shall be irrevocable; provided, however, that if the Company permits Participants to make deferral elections for  Performance-Based Compensation  (as defined in paragraph (c) below) by the deadline(s) described above, it may, in its sole discretion, and in accordance with Code Section 409A, permit a Participant to subsequently change his or her deferral election for such compensation by submitting an Election Form no later than the deadline established by the Company pursuant to Section 3.3(c) below. 
           (c) 
    Performance-Based Compensation  .    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) and (b) above, with respect to Bonus compensation that also qualifies as  Performance-Based Compensation,  the Company may, in its sole discretion, permit an irrevocable deferral election pertaining to such Performance-Based Compensation to be made by timely delivering an Election Form to the Company, in accordance with its rules and procedures, no later than six (6) months before the end of the performance service period and in accordance with Code Section 409A.  For this purpose,  Performance-Based Compensation  shall be compensation, the payment or amount of which is contingent on pre-established organizational or individual performance criteria, which satisfies the requirements of Code Section 409A. 
              (d) 
    Compensation Subject to Risk of Forfeiture  .  With respect to compensation (i) to which a Participant has a legally binding right to payment in a subsequent year, and (ii) that is subject to a forfeiture condition requiring the Participant's continued services for a period of at least twelve (12) months from the date the Participant obtains the legally binding right, the Company may, in its sole discretion, permit an irrevocable deferral election to be made with respect to such compensation by timely completing an Election Form in accordance with such rules and procedures as the Company may establish no later than the thirtieth (30th) day after the Participant obtains the legally binding right to the compensation, provided that the election is made at least twelve (12) months in advance of the earliest date at which the forfeiture condition could lapse. 
              3.4 
    Withholding and Crediting of Annual Deferral Amounts  .  For each Plan Year, the Base Salary portion of the Annual Deferral Amount shall be withheld from each regularly scheduled Base Salary payroll in equal amounts, as adjusted from time to time for increases and decreases in Base Salary.  The Bonus and Commissions portion of the Annual Deferral Amount shall be withheld at the time the Bonus and Commissions would be paid to the Participant, whether or not this occurs during the Plan Year itself.  Annual Deferral Amounts shall be credited to a Participant's Deferral Account. 
              3.5 
    Company Matching Amount  .  A Participant's Company Matching Amount (if any) for any Plan Year shall be an amount determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the amount of deferrals to this Plan and credited to a Participant.  The amount (if any) credited to a Participant under this Plan for any Plan Year may be smaller or larger than the amount credited to any other Participant. 
              3.6 
    Discretionary Company Contribution Amount  .  A Participant's Discretionary Company Contribution Amount (if any) for any Plan Year shall be an amount determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion and credited to a Participant.  The amount (if any) credited to a Participant under this Plan for any Plan Year may be smaller or larger than the amount credited to any other Participant. 
       7 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

3.7 
    Crediting of Amounts after Benefit Distribution  .  Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, should the complete distribution of a Participant's vested Account Balance occur prior to the date on which any portion of (i) the Annual Deferral Amount that a Participant has elected to defer in accordance with Section 3.3, (ii) the Company Matching Amount (if any) or (iii) the Discretionary Company Contribution Amount (if any), would otherwise be credited to the Participant's Account Balance, such amounts shall not be credited to the Participant's Account Balance, but shall be paid to the Participant. 
              3.8 
    Vesting  .  A Participant shall at all times be one hundred percent (100%) vested in his or her Account Balance unless otherwise specified in the Participant's Plan Agreement, employment agreement or any other agreement entered into between the Participant and his or her Employer, or specified at the time the Committee determines to make a Company Matching Amount or a Discretionary Company Contribution Amount pursuant to Sections 3.5 and 3.6. 
              3.9 
    Crediting/Debiting of Account Balances  .  In accordance with, and subject to, the rules and procedures that are established from time to time by the Company, amounts shall be credited or debited to a Participant's Account Balance in accordance with the following rules: 
              (a) 
    Measurement Funds  .  The Participant may elect one or more of the measurement funds selected by the Company, (the  Measurement Funds ) for the purpose of crediting or debiting additional amounts to his or her Account Balance.  As necessary, the Company may, in its sole discretion, discontinue, substitute or add a Measurement Fund. 
              (b) 
    Election of Measurement Funds  .  A Participant, in connection with his or her initial deferral election in accordance with Section 3.3(a) above, shall elect, on the Election Form, one or more Measurement Fund(s) (as described in Section 3.9(a) above) to be used to determine the amounts to be credited or debited to his or her Account Balance.  If a Participant does not elect any of the Measurement Funds as described in the previous sentence, the Participant's Account Balance shall be allocated into the Measurement Fund(s), as determined by the Company, in its sole discretion.  The Participant may (but is not required to) elect, by completing an Election Form in accordance with such rules and procedures established by the Company, to add or delete one or more Measurement Fund(s) to be used to determine the amounts to be credited or debited to his or her Account Balance, or to change the portion of his or her Account Balance allocated to each previously or newly elected Measurement Fund.  If an election is made in accordance with the previous sentence, it shall apply as of the first business day deemed reasonably practicable by the Company, in its sole discretion, and shall continue thereafter for each subsequent day in which the Participant participates in the Plan, unless changed in accordance with the previous sentence.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company, in its sole discretion, may impose limitations on the frequency with which one or more of the Measurement Funds elected in accordance with this Section may be added or deleted by such Participant; furthermore, the Company, in its sole discretion, may impose limitations on the frequency with which the Participant may change the portion of his or her Account Balance allocated to each previously or newly elected Measurement Fund. 
              (c) 
    Proportionate Allocation  .  In making any election described in Section 3.9(b) above, the Participant shall specify on the Election Form, in increments of one percent (1%), the percentage of his or her Account Balance or Measurement Fund, as applicable, to be allocated/reallocated. 
       8 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

(d) 
    Crediting or Debiting Method  .  The performance of each Measurement Fund (either positive or negative) will be determined on a daily basis based on the manner in which such Participant's Account Balance has been hypothetically allocated among the Measurement Funds by the Participant. 
              (e) 
    No Actual Investment  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan that may be interpreted to the contrary, the Measurement Funds are to be used for measurement purposes only, and a Participant's election of any such Measurement Fund, the allocation of his or her Account Balance thereto, the calculation of additional amounts and the crediting or debiting of such amounts to a Participant's Account Balance   shall     not   be considered or construed in any manner as an actual investment of his or her Account Balance in any such Measurement Fund.  In the event that the   Company   in its own discretion decides to invest funds in any or all of the investments on which the Measurement Funds are based, no Participant shall have any rights in or to such investments themselves.  Without limiting the foregoing, a Participant's Account Balance shall at all times be a bookkeeping entry only and shall not represent any investment made on his or her behalf by the Company; the Participant shall at all times remain an unsecured creditor of the Company.  
              (f) 
    Trailing Dividends  .  In the event that notional dividends are credited after an account has otherwise been fully distributed, if such dividends are attributable to periods on or prior to the valuation date(s) for such distribution (as determined by the Company, in its sole discretion) but are not included in the Participant's distribution(s), the Participant shall be entitled to receive such dividends and they shall be paid in accordance with the procedures established by the Company no later than the time permitted by Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(d); provided, however, that Participants shall not be entitled to any amounts that cannot be paid in accordance with such procedures by such deadline. 
               (a) 
    Annual Deferrals, Company Matching Amounts and Discretionary Company Contribution Amounts  .  For each Plan Year in which an Annual Deferral Amount is being withheld from a Participant or the amount of any Company Matching Amount or Company Discretionary Contribution Amount credited to a Participant's Company Contributions Account becomes vested, the Participant's Employer(s) shall withhold from that portion of the Participant's Base Salary, Bonus and/or Commissions, that is not being deferred, in a manner determined by the Employer(s), the Participant's share of FICA and other employment taxes on such Annual Deferral Amount, Company Matching Amount and Discretionary Company Contribution Amount.  If necessary, the Participant's Annual Deferral Amount or the Participant's Company Contributions Account, as applicable, may be reduced to pay such taxes (and associated income tax withholdings) in accordance with Code Section 409A. 
              (b) 
    Distributions  .  The Participant's Employer(s) shall withhold from any payments made to a Participant under this Plan (including payments, if any, made pursuant to Section 14.16) all federal, state and local income, employment and other taxes required to be withheld by the Employer(s) in connection with such payments, in amounts and in a manner to be determined in the sole discretion of the Employer(s). 
              (c) 
    Income Inclusion Under Code Section 409A  .  In the event that any portion of a Participant's Account is required to be included in income by the Participant prior to receipt of any  
       9 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

distribution under this Plan resulting from a violation of the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Participant's Employer shall withhold from such Participant all federal, state and local income, employment and other taxes required to be withheld by the Employer in connection with such income inclusion in amounts and in a manner determined in the sole discretion of the Employer. 
  ARTICLE 4 
  Scheduled Distribution; Unforeseeable Emergencies 
           4.1 
    Scheduled Distribution  .  At the same time that a Participant makes each election to defer an Annual Deferral Amount, the Participant may elect to receive a Scheduled Distribution, in the form of a lump sum payment, from the Plan with respect to all or a portion of the Annual Deferral Amount.  The Scheduled Distribution shall be a lump sum payment in an amount that is equal to the portion of the Annual Deferral Amount the Participant elected to have distributed as a Scheduled Distribution, plus amounts credited or debited in the manner provided in Section 3.9 above on that amount, calculated as of the date on or around January 1 of the calendar year in which the Scheduled Distribution becomes payable in accordance with the procedures established by the Company.  Subject to the other terms and conditions of this Plan, the Benefit Distribution Date for each Scheduled Distribution elected shall be the date in January of the Plan Year designated by the Participant determined in accordance with the procedures established by the Company.  The Plan Year designated by the Participant must be at least two (2) Plan Years after the end of the Plan Year to which the Participant's deferral election described in Section 3.3 relates, unless otherwise provided on an Election Form approved by the Company in its sole discretion.  By way of example, if a Scheduled Distribution is elected for Annual Deferral Amounts that are earned in the Plan Year commencing January 1, 2013, the earliest Scheduled Distribution Date that may be designated by a Participant would be in January 2012.  In connection with any Company Matching Amount or Discretionary Company Contribution made with respect to any Plan Year, any election made by a Participant pursuant to this Section should also apply to these amounts.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the Company may establish other procedures, consistent with Code Section 409A, for distribution elections pertaining to Company Matching Amounts and Discretionary Company Contribution Amounts. 
              4.2 
    Postponing Scheduled Distributions  .  A Participant may elect to postpone a Scheduled Distribution described in Section 4.1 above, and have such amount paid out on an allowable alternative distribution date designated by the Participant in accordance with this Section 4.2.  In order to make this election, the Participant must complete a new Scheduled Distribution Election Form in accordance with such rules and procedures as the Company may establish and in accordance with the following criteria: 
              (a) 
    Such Scheduled Distribution Election Form must be completed at least twelve (12) months prior to the Participant's previously designated Scheduled Distribution Date; 
              (b) 
    The new Scheduled Distribution Date selected by the Participant must be at least five years after the previously designated Scheduled Distribution Date; and 
              (c) 
    The election of the new Scheduled Distribution Date shall have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made. 
              4.3 
    Other Benefits Take Precedence Over Scheduled Distributions  .  Should a Benefit Distribution Date occur that triggers a benefit under Articles 5, 6 or 7, any amount that is subject to a Scheduled  
       10 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Distribution election under Section 4.1 shall not be paid in accordance with Section 4.1, but shall be paid in accordance with the other applicable Article.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section 4.3 shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A. 
           4.4 
    Scheduled Distributions and Former Scientific-Atlanta Participants  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the time and form of payment of a scheduled distribution to a Participant in the SA Post-2004 Plan and/or SA Grandfathered Plan shall be determined in accordance with Supplements A and B, respectively. 
     4.5        Unforeseeable Emergencies  . 
           (a) 
    If the Participant experiences an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Participant may petition the Company to receive a partial or full payout from the Plan, subject to the provisions set forth below. 
              (b) 
    The payout, if any, from the Plan shall not exceed the lesser of (i) the Participant's vested Account Balance, calculated as of the close of business on or around the date on which the amount becomes payable, or (ii) the amount necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency, plus amounts necessary to pay Federal, state, or local income taxes or penalties reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may not receive a payout from the Plan to the extent that the Unforeseeable Emergency would not be consistent with Code Section 409A. 
              (c) 
    If a Participant's petition for payout from the Plan is approved, the Participant's Benefit Distribution Date shall occur within thirty (30) days after the beginning of the calendar quarter following the date of such approval (or at such later time permitted under Code Section 409A) and the Participant's deferrals under the Plan shall be terminated as of the date of such approval. 
              (d) 
    In addition, a Participant's deferral elections under this Plan shall be terminated to the extent the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that termination of such Participant's deferral elections is required pursuant to Treas. Reg.  1.401(k)-1(d)(3) for the Participant to obtain a hardship distribution from an Employer's 401(k) Plan.  If the Company determines, in its sole discretion, that a termination of the Participant's deferrals is required in accordance with the preceding sentence, the Participant's deferrals shall be terminated following the date on which such determination is made. 
     ARTICLE 5 
  Termination Benefit 
           5.1 
    Termination Benefit  .  A Participant who incurs a Termination of Employment shall receive, as a Termination Benefit of his or her entire vested Account Balance calculated as of the close of business on or around the Participant's Benefit Distribution Date(s), in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 5.2. 
              5.2 
    Payment of Termination Benefit  . 
              (a) 
    At the same time that a Participant makes each election to defer an Annual Deferral Amount, the Participant may elect to receive the Termination Benefit in a lump sum or pursuant to an Installment Method of up to ten (10) years.  Participant shall elect a Benefit Distribution Date consistent with Section 5.2(b).  In connection with any Company Matching Amount  
       11 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

or Discretionary Company Contribution made with respect to any Plan Year, any election made by a Participant pursuant to this Section 5.2 shall also apply to these amounts.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the Company may establish other procedures, consistent with Code Section 409A, for distribution elections pertaining to Company Matching Amounts and Discretionary Company Contribution Amounts.  If a Participant does not make any election with respect to the payment of the Termination Benefit, then such Participant shall be deemed to have elected to receive the Termination Benefit in a lump sum on the Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 5.2(b)(i).  
           (b) 
    The following Benefit Distribution Dates may be selected by a Participant at the time he or she makes the Participant's election described in Section 5.2(a): 
              (i) 
    Within thirty (30) days after the beginning of the first calendar quarter that is at least six (6) months after the Participant's Termination of Employment; 
              (ii) 
    Within thirty (30) days after the beginning of the first calendar year that is at least six (6) months after the Participant's Termination of Employment; or 
              (iii) 
    Within thirty (30) days after the beginning of the first calendar quarter elected by the Participant which is between one and five years after the Participant's Termination of Employment. 
              (c) 
    Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, if the Participant has not attained age forty (40) with five (5) years of service on the date of his or her Termination of Employment, the Termination Benefit subject to the annual election shall be paid in a single sum on the Benefit Distribution Date elected for such purposes; provided, however, that the Participant may not elect the Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 5.2(b)(iii) for this purpose.  For purposes of this Section 5.2(c),  years of service  shall be determined in the same manner as "vesting service" is determined under the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401(k) Plan. 
              (d) 
    Notwithstanding anything in this Section 5.2 to the contrary, if the Participant's vested Account Balance on the date of his or her Termination of Employment is less than $100,000, then the distribution elections described in Sections 5.2(a) through 5.2(c) above shall be disregarded and the Participant's entire vested Account Balance shall be paid in a lump sum distribution on the Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 5.2(b)(i), above. 
              5.3 
    Payment of Termination Benefit to Former Scientific-Atlanta Participants  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the time and form of payment of the termination benefit to a Participant in the SA Post-2004 Plan and/or SA Grandfathered Plan shall be determined in accordance with Supplements A and B, respectively. 
     ARTICLE 6 
  Disability Benefit 
           6.1 
    Disability Benefit  .  Upon a Participant's Disability, the Participant shall receive a Disability Benefit which shall be equal to the Participant's entire vested Account Balance, calculated as of the Participant's Benefit Distribution Date. 
       12 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

6.2 
    Payment of Disability Benefit  . 
              (a) 
    A Participant, in connection with his or her commencement of participation in the Plan (or more frequently as the Company may prescribe), shall elect on an Election Form to receive the Disability Benefit in a lump sum or pursuant to an Installment Method of up to ten (10) years in accordance with such rules and procedures as the Company may establish.  If a Participant does not make any election with respect to the payment of the Disability Benefit, then such Participant shall be deemed to have elected to receive the Disability Benefit in a lump sum.  For this purpose, a Participant's Benefit Distribution Date shall be within thirty (30) days, after the beginning of the calendar quarter following the Participant's Disability. 
              (b) 
    A Participant may change the form of payment of the Disability Benefit by completing an Election Form in accordance with such rules and procedures established by the Company provided that the election to modify the Disability Benefit shall have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made. 
     All provisions relating to changing the Disability Benefit election under this Section 6.2 shall be interpreted in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A. 
           (c) 
    The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence on the Participant's Benefit Distribution Date (or such later time permitted under Code Section 409A). 
              (d) 
    Notwithstanding anything in this Article to the contrary, if a Participant's vested Account Balance is less than $100,000 on the date the Participant is determined to be Disabled, then the Participant shall receive payment of his or her entire vested Account Balance  within thirty (30) days after the beginning of the calendar quarter following the Participant's Disability. 
              6.3 
    Payment of Disability Benefit to Former Scientific-Atlanta Participants  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the time and form of payment of the disability benefit to a Participant in the SA Post-2004 Plan and/or SA Grandfathered Plan shall be determined in accordance with Supplements A and B, respectively. 
     ARTICLE 7 
  Death Benefit 
           7.1 
    Death Benefit  .  The Participant's Beneficiary(ies) shall receive a Death Benefit upon the Participant's death which will be equal to the Participant's entire vested Account Balance, calculated as of the close of business as of the Participant's Benefit Distribution Date, which, for this purpose, shall be within thirty (30) days following the beginning of the second calendar quarter following the Participant's death. 
              7.2 
    Payment of Death Benefit  .  The Death Benefit shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary(ies) in a lump sum payment on the Participant's Benefit Distribution Date (or such later time permitted under Code Section 409A). 
              7.3 
    Payment of Death Benefit to Former Scientific-Atlanta Participants  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the time and form of payment of the death benefit to a Participant in the SA Post-2004 Plan and/or SA Grandfathered Plan shall be determined in accordance with Supplements A and B, respectively. 
       13 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

ARTICLE 8 
  Beneficiary Designation 
           8.1 
    Beneficiary  .  Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to designate his or her Beneficiary(ies) (both primary as well as contingent) to receive any benefits payable under the Plan to a beneficiary upon the death of a Participant under such rules as shall be established by the Company.  The Beneficiary designated under this Plan may be the same as or different from the Beneficiary designation under any other plan of an Employer in which the Participant participates. 
              8.2 
    Beneficiary Designation; Change; Spousal Consent  .  A Participant shall designate his or her Beneficiary by completing the Beneficiary Designation Form, and returning it to the Company or its designated agent in accordance with such rules and procedures established by the Company.  A Participant shall have the right to change a Beneficiary by completing and otherwise complying with the terms of the Beneficiary Designation Form and the Company's rules and procedures, as in effect from time to time.  If the Participant names someone other than his or her spouse as a Beneficiary, the Company may, in its sole discretion, determine that spousal consent is required to be provided in a form designated by the Company, executed by such Participant's spouse and returned to the Company or its designated agent.  Upon the proper completion of a new Beneficiary Designation Form, all Beneficiary designations previously filed shall be canceled and the Company shall be entitled to rely on the last Beneficiary Designation Form completed by the Participant in accordance with the applicable rules and procedures adopted with respect to the filing of such forms prior to his or her death. 
              8.3 
    Acknowledgment  .  No designation or change in designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective until completed and submitted in accordance with the rules and procedures established by the Company for this purpose. 
              8.4 
    No Beneficiary Designation  .  If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided in Sections 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3 above or, if all designated Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to complete distribution of the Participant's benefits, then the Participant's designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be his or her surviving spouse.  If the Participant has no surviving spouse, the benefits remaining under the Plan to be paid to a Beneficiary shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the Participant's estate. 
              8.5 
    Doubt as to Beneficiary  .  If there is any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments pursuant to this Plan, the Committee shall have the right, exercisable in its discretion, to cause the Participant's Employer to withhold such payments until this matter is resolved to the Committee's satisfaction. 
              8.6 
    Discharge of Obligations  .  The payment of benefits under the Plan to a Beneficiary shall fully and completely discharge all Employers and the Company from all further obligations under this Plan with respect to the Participant, and that Participant's Plan Agreement shall terminate upon such full payment of benefits. 
     ARTICLE 9 
  Leave of Absence 
           9.1 
    Paid Leave of Absence  .  If a Participant is authorized by the Participant's Employer to take a paid leave of absence from the employment of the Employer, and such leave of absence does not constitute  
       14 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

a separation from service in accordance with Code Section 409A, (i) the Participant shall continue to be considered eligible for the benefits provided in Articles 4, 5, 6 or 7 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles, and (ii) the Annual Deferral Amount     shall continue to be withheld from his or her Base Salary, Bonuses and Commissions during such paid leave of absence in accordance with Section 3.3. 
           9.2 
    Unpaid Leave of Absence  .  If a Participant is authorized by the Participant's Employer to take an unpaid leave of absence from the employment of the Employer for any reason, and such leave of absence does not constitute a separation from service in accordance with Code Section 409A, such Participant shall continue to be eligible for the benefits provided in Articles 4, 5, 6 or 7 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles.  The Participant shall continue his or her deferrals with respect to amounts earned prior to the commencement of the unpaid leave of absence.  When the Participant returns to employment, the Participant's deferrals with respect to amounts earned after his or her return to active employment shall continue in accordance with the applicable election(s) submitted for that Plan Year.  In addition, Participants who are on an unpaid leave may elect to defer an Annual Deferral Amount for the Plan Year following his or her return to employment and for every Plan Year thereafter while a Participant in the Plan, provided such deferral elections are otherwise allowed and an Election Form is completed in accordance with the rules and procedures established for each such election in accordance with Article 3 above. 
              9.3 
    Leaves Resulting in Separation From Service  .  In the event that a Participant's leave of absence from his or her Employer constitutes a separation from service in accordance with Code Section 409A, the Participant's vested Account Balance shall be distributed to the Participant in accordance with Article 5 or 6 of this Plan, as applicable. 
     ARTICLE 10 
  Termination of Plan, Amendment or Modification 
           10.1 
    Termination of Plan  .  Although each Employer anticipates that it will continue the Plan for an indefinite period of time, there is no guarantee that any Employer will continue the Plan or will not terminate its participation in the Plan at any time in the future.  Accordingly, each Employer reserves the right to terminate its participation in the Plan.  In addition, the Committee retains the right to terminate the Plan at any time.  In the event of the termination of an Employer's participation in the Plan (or the Committee's termination of the Plan as a whole), the termination shall occur in a manner consistent with the requirements of Code Section 409A. 
              10.2 
    Amendment  .  The Committee may, at any time, amend or modify the Plan in whole or in part. 
              10.3 
    Effect of Payment  .  The full payment of the Participant's vested Account Balance under the Plan shall fully and completely discharge all Employers and the Company from all further obligations under this Plan with respect to the Participant and his or her Beneficiaries, and that Participant's Plan Agreement shall terminate upon such full payment of benefits. 
     ARTICLE 11 
  Administration 
           11.1 
    Duties  .  The 401(k) Administration Committee shall have the discretion and authority to (i) make, amend, interpret, and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of this Plan, and (ii) decide or resolve any and all questions, including benefit entitlement determinations  
       15 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

(including but not limited to the 401(k) Administrative Committee's authority to determine whether a Participant qualifies for a distribution on account of Disability or an Unforeseeable Emergency) and interpretations of this Plan, as may arise in connection with the Plan.  When making a determination or calculation, the 401(k) Administration Committee shall be entitled to rely on information furnished by a Participant or the Company.  The 401(k) Administration Committee may delegate some or all of its powers and authority under this Plan. 
           11.2 
    Agents  .  In the administration of this Plan, the 401(k) Administration Committee may, from time to time, employ agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit (including acting through a duly appointed representative) and may from time to time consult with counsel. 
              11.3 
    Binding Effect of Decisions  .  The decision or action of the 401(k) Administration Committee with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan. 
              11.4 
    Indemnity of Committee  .  To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, each member of the 401(k) Administration Committee, the Committee, and the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (i) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan, and (ii) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf.  The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Articles     of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless. 
              11.5 
    Employer Information  .  To enable the 401(k) Administration Committee to perform its functions, the Company and each Employer shall supply full and timely information on all matters relating to the Plan, the Participants and their Beneficiaries, the Account Balances of the Participants, the compensation of its Participants, the date and circumstances of the Disability, death or Termination of Employment of its Participants, and such other pertinent information as may be reasonably required. 
     ARTICLE 12 
  Other Benefits and Agreements 
           12.1 
    Coordination with Other Benefits  .  The benefits provided for a Participant and Participant's Beneficiary under the Plan are in addition to any other benefits available to such Participant under any other plan or program for employees of the Participant's Employer.  The Plan shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify or amend any other such plan or program except as may otherwise be expressly provided. 
       16 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

ARTICLE 13 
  Claims Procedures 
           13.1 
    Presentation of Claim  .  Any Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant (such Participant or Beneficiary being referred to below as a  Claimant ) may deliver to the Company a written claim for a determination with respect to the amounts distributable to such Claimant from the Plan.  All other claims must be made within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date on which the event that caused the claim to arise occurred.  The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant. 
              13.2 
    Notification of Decision  .  The Company shall consider a Claimant's claim within a reasonable time, but no later than ninety (90) days after receiving the claim.  If the 401(k) Administration Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial ninety (90) day period.  In no event shall such extension exceed a period of ninety (90) days from the end of the initial period.  The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Company expects to render the benefit determination.  The Company shall notify the Claimant in writing: 
              (a) 
    that the Claimant's requested determination has been made, and that the claim has been allowed in full; or 
              (b) 
    that the Company has reached a conclusion contrary, in whole or in part, to the Claimant's requested determination, and such notice must set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant: 
              (i) 
    the specific reason(s) for the denial of the claim, or any part of it; 
              (ii) 
    specific reference(s) to pertinent provisions of the Plan upon which such denial was based; 
              (iii) 
    a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; 
              (iv) 
    an explanation of the claim review procedure set forth in Section 13.3 below; and 
              (v) 
    a statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under ERISA Section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review. 
              13.3 
    Review of a Denied Claim  .  On or before sixty (60) days after receiving a notice from the Company that a claim has been denied, in whole or in part, a Claimant (or the Claimant's duly authorized representative) may file with the 401(k) Administration Committee a written request for a review of the denial of the claim.  The Claimant (or the Claimant's duly authorized representative): 
              (a) 
    may, upon request and free of charge, have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant (as defined in applicable ERISA regulations) to the claim for benefits; 
              (b) 
    may submit written comments or other documents; and/or 
              (c) 
    may request a hearing, which the Company, in its sole discretion, may grant. 
       17 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

13.4 
    Decision on Review  .  The Company shall render its decision on review promptly, and no later than sixty (60) days after the Company receives the Claimant's written request for a review of the denial of the claim.  If the Company determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial sixty (60) day period.  In no event shall such extension exceed a period of sixty (60) days from the end of the initial period.  The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Company expects to render the benefit determination.  In rendering its decision, the Company shall take into account all comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.  The decision must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant, and it must contain: 
              (a) 
    specific reasons for the decision; 
              (b) 
    specific reference(s) to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision was based; 
              (c) 
    a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant (as defined in applicable ERISA regulations) to the Claimant's claim for benefits; and 
              (d) 
    a statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under ERISA Section 502(a). 
              13.5 
    Legal Action  .  A Claimant's compliance with the foregoing provisions of this Article 13 is a mandatory prerequisite to a Claimant's right to commence any legal action with respect to any claim for benefits under this Plan. 
     ARTICLE 14 
  Miscellaneous 
           14.1 
    Status of Plan  .  The Plan is intended to be a plan that is not qualified within the meaning of Code Section 401(a) and that  is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees  within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1).  The Plan shall be administered and interpreted (i) in a manner consistent with that intent, and (ii) in accordance with Code Section 409A. 
              14.2 
    Unsecured General Creditor  .  Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interests or claims in any property or assets of an Employer.  For purposes of the payment of benefits under this Plan, any and all of an Employer's assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged unrestricted assets of the Employer.  An Employer's obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future. 
              14.3 
    Employer's Liability  .  An Employer's liability for the payment of benefits shall be defined only by the Plan and the Plan Agreement, as entered into between the Employer and a Participant.  An Employer shall have no obligation to a Participant under the Plan except as expressly provided in the Plan and his or her Plan Agreement. 
              14.4 
    Nonassignability  .  Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate, alienate  
       18 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

or convey in advance of actual receipt, the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are expressly declared to be, unassignable and non-transferable.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure, attachment, garnishment or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any other person, be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant's or any other person's bankruptcy or insolvency or be transferable to a spouse as a result of a property settlement or otherwise.  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Company may establish procedures for the payment of all or a portion of a Participant's Account balance pursuant to a domestic relations order which would otherwise qualify a  qualified domestic relations order  under Code Section 414(p) if this Plan were qualified under Code Section 401(a). 
           14.5 
    Not a Contract of Employment  .  The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of employment between any Employer and the Participant.  Such employment is hereby acknowledged to be  at-will , meaning that it is not for any specified period of time and can be terminated by the Participant or his or her Employer at any time, with or without advance notice, and for any or no particular reason or cause.  Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of any Employer or to interfere with the right of any Employer to discipline or discharge the Participant at any time. 
              14.6 
    Furnishing Information  .  A Participant or his or her Beneficiary will cooperate with the Company, Employer and/or the 401(k) Administration Committee (as applicable) by furnishing any and all information requested, and take such other actions as may be requested, in order to facilitate the administration of the Plan and the payments of benefits hereunder. 
              14.7 
    Terms  .  Whenever any words are used herein in the masculine, they shall be construed as though they were in the feminine in all cases where they would so apply; and whenever any words are used herein in the singular or in the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in the plural or the singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply. 
              14.8 
    Captions  .  The captions of the articles, sections and paragraphs of this Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of its provisions. 
              14.9 
    Governing Law  .  Subject to ERISA, the provisions of this Plan shall be construed and interpreted according to the internal laws of the State of California without regard to its conflicts of laws principles. 
              14.10 
    Notice  .  Any notice or filing required or permitted under this Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail or overnight delivery service, to the address below:  
     Cisco Systems, Inc. 
  Attn:        Cisco Systems, Inc. 2009 Deferred Compensation 
           Plan Administrator 
  170 West Tasman Drive 
  San Jose, CA 95134 
  Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, or overnight delivery service as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. 
    19 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to a Participant under this Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by mail or overnight delivery service, to the last known address of the Participant. 
           14.11 
    Successors  .  The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Participant's Employer and its successors and assigns and the Participant and the Participant's designated Beneficiaries. 
              14.12 
    Spouse's Interest  .  The interest in the benefits hereunder of a spouse of a Participant who has predeceased the Participant shall automatically pass to the Participant and shall not be transferable by such spouse in any manner, including but not limited to such spouse's will, nor shall such interest pass under the laws of intestate succession. 
              14.13 
    Validity  .  In case any provision of this Plan shall be illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted herein. 
              14.14 
    Incompetent  .  If the Company determines in its discretion that a benefit under this Plan is to be paid to a minor, a person declared incompetent or to a person incapable of handling the disposition of that person's property, the 401(k) Administration Committee may direct payment of such benefit to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent or incapable person.  The Company may require proof of minority, incompetence, incapacity or guardianship, as it may deem appropriate prior to distribution of the benefit.  Any payment of a benefit shall be a payment for the account of the Participant and the Participant's Beneficiary, as the case may be, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan for such payment amount. 
              14.15 
    Court Order  .  The Company is authorized to comply with any court order in any action in which the Plan or the Company has been named as a party, including any action involving a determination of the rights or interests in a Participant's benefits under the Plan as set forth in such procedures as the Company may establish pursuant to Section 14.4.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall interpret this provision in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law. 
              14.16 
    Distribution in the Event of Income Inclusion under Code Section 409A  .  If any portion of a Participant's Account Balance under this Plan is required to be included in income by the Participant prior to receipt due to a violation of the requirements of Code Section 409A, the Participant may petition the Company, as applicable, for a distribution of that portion of his or her Account Balance that is required to be included in his or her income.  Upon the grant of such a petition, which grant shall not be unreasonably withheld, the Participant's Employer shall distribute to the Participant immediately available funds in an amount equal to the portion of his or her Account Balance required to be included in income as a result of the failure of the Plan to meet the requirements of Code Section 409A, which amount shall not exceed the Participant's unpaid vested Account Balance under the Plan.  Such a distribution shall affect and reduce the Participant's benefits to be paid under this Plan. 
              14.17 
    Deduction Limitation on Benefit Payments  .  If an Employer reasonably anticipates that the Employer's deduction with respect to any distribution from this Plan would be limited or eliminated by application of Code Section 162(m), then to the extent deemed necessary by the Employer to ensure that the entire amount of any distribution from this Plan is deductible, the Employer may  
       20 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 

delay payment of any amount that would otherwise be distributed from this Plan.  Any amounts for which distribution is delayed pursuant to this Section 14.17 shall continue to be credited/debited with additional amounts in accordance with Section 3.9 above.  The delayed amounts (and any amounts credited thereon) shall be distributed to the Participant (or his or her Beneficiary in the event of the Participant's death) at the earliest date the Employer reasonably anticipates that the deduction of the payment of the amount will not be limited or eliminated by application of Code Section 162(m). 
  . 
    21 

Cisco Systems, Inc.  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement A 

SUPPLEMENT A TO 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2009 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

Special provisions applicable to participants of the Scientific-Atlanta 2005 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008 (the  SA Post-2004 Plan ), with amounts deferred between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2008. 

SUPPLEMENT A TO CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2009 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  Amended and Restated 
  Effective January 1, 2013 

Purpose 
    
    The SA Post-2004 Plan merged with the Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2009 (collectively the  Plan ).  Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Supplement A, the rights and obligations of participants of the SA Post-2004 Plan, with amounts deferred between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2008 (the  SA Post-2004 Plan Participants ), will be determined in accordance with the Plan.  This Supplement A is a part of the Plan and shall be administered in accordance with the provisions thereof.  
    1 

Cisco Systems, Inc.  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement A 

ARTICLE-1 
  Definitions 
    
    For purposes of this Supplement A, the following special definitions shall apply.  Section numbers shall refer exclusively to this Supplement A absent a specific statement to the contrary: 
    
           1.1 
       Deferral Account    shall mean an account maintained by the Employer for each deferral election made by a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant under the SA Post-2004 Plan. 
       
           1.2 
       Deferred Benefit Commencement Date    shall mean the date designated by a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant with respect to each deferral election as the date on which the payment of the Deferred Benefits that accumulate as a result of such election are to begin. 
       
           1.3 
       Deferred Benefits    shall mean the amounts payable pursuant to the SA Post-2004 Plan to a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant, or to his or her Beneficiary or estate, following the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Separation from Service, the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date, Disability, or death. 
       
           1.4 
       Employer    shall mean Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. or any of its majority owned subsidiaries and their successors. 
       
           1.5 
       Separation from Service    shall have the meaning provided under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder ( Section 409A ). 
     ARTICLE-2 
  Deferred Benefit Commencement Date 
    
           2.1 
    Deferred Benefit Commencement Date  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Article and in Article 3 hereof, payment of the Deferred Benefits shall commence on one of the following permissible Deferred Benefit Commencement Dates, as elected by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant pursuant to the terms of the SA Post-2004 Plan: (i) a set date which is no earlier than July 1 following the end of the Plan Year in which the election amount is deferred; (ii) the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Separation from Service date, or (iii) a date which is either the fifth (5th) or tenth (10th) anniversary of the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Separation from Service.  The term  Retirement  used as a designation on any Election Form for a Deferred Benefit Commencement Date shall mean the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Separation from Service date. 
       
           2.2 
    Method of Payment  .  Except as otherwise provided in Article 3 hereof, payment of the Deferred Benefits shall be in the form of cash, pursuant to one of the following methods, as elected by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant: 
       
           (a) 
    A single lump sum payment of the entire balance of the respective Deferral Account, determined as of the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date and payable within sixty (60) days; or 
       2 

Cisco Systems, Inc.  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement A 

(b) 
    Annual, semi-annual or quarterly installments payable over a five (5), ten (10) or fifteen (15) year period, and commencing on the respective Deferred Benefit Commencement Date.   
       
  If the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant has elected to receive such Deferred Benefits in installments, the amount payable in the first year of such installments shall be an amount that will fully amortize the balance in the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Deferral Account determined as of the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date over the five (5), ten (10), or fifteen (15) year period.  Thereafter, the amount payable in each succeeding year shall be adjusted to an amount that will fully amortize the remaining balance in such Deferral Account over the remaining years in the aforesaid five (5), ten (10), or fifteen (15) year installment period. 
    
           2.3 
    Postponing Distribution  .  If the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date selected by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant is a set date which is no earlier than July 1 following the end of the Plan Year in which the Election Amount is deferred, then the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant may elect to postpone such distribution and have such amount paid out on an allowable alternative Deferred Benefit Commencement Date designated by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant in accordance with this Section 2.3.  In order to make this election, the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant must complete a new Election Form in accordance with such rules and procedures as the Company may establish and in accordance with the following criteria: 
       
           (a) 
    Such Election Form must be completed at least twelve (12) months prior to the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's previously designated Deferred Benefit Commencement Date; 
       
           (b) 
    The new Deferred Benefit Commencement Date selected by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant must be at least five (5) years after the previously designated Deferred Benefit Commencement Date; and 
       
           (c) 
    The election of the new Deferred Benefit Commencement Date shall have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made. 

ARTICLE-3 
  Payment of Deferred Benefits 
    
           3.1 
    Separation from Service  .  Deferred Benefits shall be paid to a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant upon his or her Separation from Service, as follows: 
       
           (a) 
    Without exception, if a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant incurs a Separation from Service prior to attaining age fifty-five (55), then the balance of his or her Deferral Account shall be determined on a date that is six (6) months after his or her Separation from Service and paid in a lump sum within thirty (30) days of such date. 
       
           (b) 
    If a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant incurs a Separation from Service after attaining age fifty-five (55) or older, then the balance of his or her Deferral Account shall be determined on  
       3 

Cisco Systems, Inc.  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement A 

   the applicable Deferred Benefit Commencement Date elected by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant (except that benefits paid in accordance with Section 2.1(ii) shall be determined on a date that is six (6) months after the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Separation from Service).  Such benefits shall paid or commence to be paid, as applicable, within thirty (30) days of such date, in accordance with the instructions regarding the form of payment in the applicable Election Form. 
    
  3.2        Disability  . 
    
           (a) 
    Upon the determination of a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Disability, no further deferrals will be made to the Deferral Account and the Company shall pay the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant the balance in each of the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Deferral Accounts in the manner specified by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant in his or her Election Form to apply in the event of his or her Disability, or if no such specification is made, on the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date that applies to such Deferral Account pursuant to the method requested by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant in his or her Election Form.   
       
           (b) 
    A SA Post-2004 Plan Participant may change the form of payment of the Disability benefit by completing an Election Form in accordance with such rules and procedures established by the Company provided that the election to modify the Disability benefit shall have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made. 
       
           (c) 
    Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of Article 6 of the Plan will not govern a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Disability benefits. 
       
           3.3 
    Death  .  Deferred Benefits shall be paid upon the death of a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant, as follows: 
       
           (a) 
    Upon the death of a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant, the Company shall pay the amounts in each of the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Deferral Accounts to the Beneficiary designated by the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant with respect to each Compensation Deferral Election in each of his or her respective Election Forms, or, if the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant fails to so designate a Beneficiary, to his or her surviving spouse.  If the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant has no surviving spouse, then the benefits shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the SA Post-2005 Plan Participant's estate. 
       
           (b) 
    If the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Separation from Service is due to death, the Company shall pay to each respective Beneficiary or to the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's estate, as the case may be, the amounts in each of the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's respective Deferral Accounts, in the same manner as for a SA Post-2004 Plan Participant who has incurred a Separation from Service, as set forth in Section 3.1(a). 
       
           (c) 
    If the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant dies following his or her Separation from Service date but prior to his or her receiving the full payment of all Deferred Benefits payable to him or her, the respective Beneficiaries or the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's estate, as the case  
       4 

Cisco Systems, Inc.  
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement A 

   may be, shall receive a distribution of the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant's Deferred Benefits in the same manner as it otherwise would have paid to the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant as if the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant had not died, unless the SA Post-2004 Plan Participant has specified in his or her Election Form a different manner of payment to a Beneficiary. 
    
           (d) 
    If a Beneficiary who is receiving Deferred Benefits pursuant to the  SA Post-2004 Plan dies, the remainder of the Deferred Benefits to which such Beneficiary was entitled at the time of his or her death shall continue to be payable to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by such Beneficiary in writing to the Company (or to the Beneficiary's estate or heirs if he or she fails to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries). 

5 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

SUPPLEMENT B TO 
  CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2009 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 

Special provisions applicable to participants of the Scientific-Atlanta Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective May 15, 2002 (the  SA Grandfathered Plan ), with amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005. 

SUPPLEMENT B TO CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 
  2009 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
  Amended and Restated 
  Effective January 1, 2013 

Purpose 
    
    The SA Grandfathered Plan merged with the Cisco Systems, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective January 1, 2009.  Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Supplement B, the rights and obligations of participants of the SA Grandfathered Plan, with amounts deferred prior to January 1, 2005 (the  SA Grandfathered Plan Participants ), will be determined in accordance with the Plan.  This Supplement B is a part of the Plan and shall be administered in accordance with the provisions thereof.  

1 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

ARTICLE-1 
  Definitions 
    
    For purposes of this Supplement B, the following special definitions shall apply.  Section numbers shall refer exclusively to this Supplement B absent a specific statement to the contrary: 
    
           1.1 
       Deferral Account    shall mean an account maintained by the Employer for each deferral election made by a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant under the SA Grandfathered Plan. 
       
           1.2 
       Deferred Benefit Commencement Date    shall mean the date irrevocably designated by a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant with respect to each deferral election as the date on which the payment of the Deferred Benefits that accumulate as a result of such election are to begin. 
       
           1.3 
       Deferred Benefits    shall mean the amounts payable pursuant to the SA Grandfathered Plan to a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant, or to his or her Beneficiary or estate, following the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's termination of employment, the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date, Total Disability, or death. 
       
           1.4 
       Employer    shall mean Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. or any of its majority owned subsidiaries and their successors. 
       
           1.5 
       Total Disability    shall mean a physical or mental condition which is expected to be totally and permanently disabling as determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the long-term disability insurance plan currently or most recently maintained by the Employer for the benefit of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant claiming to be totally disabled. 

ARTICLE-2 
  Deferred Benefit Commencement Date 
    
           2.1 
    Deferred Benefit Commencement Date  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Article and in Article 3 hereof, payment of the Deferred Benefits (except for amounts held in the Insurance Fund, defined below) shall commence on one of the following permissible Deferred Benefit Commencement Dates, as elected by the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant pursuant to the terms of the SA Grandfathered Plan: (i) a set date which is no earlier than July 1 following the end of the Plan Year in which the election amount is deferred; (ii) the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's termination of employment date, or (iii) a date which is either the fifth (5th) or tenth (10th) anniversary of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's termination of employment.  The term  Retirement  used as a designation on any Election Form for a Deferred Benefit Commencement Date shall mean the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's termination of employment date. 
       
           2.2 
    Method of Payment  .  Except as otherwise provided in Article 3 hereof, payment of the Deferred Benefits (other than benefits held in the Insurance Fund, defined below) shall be in the form of cash, pursuant to one of the following methods, as elected by the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant: 
       
    2 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

(a) 
    A single lump sum payment of the entire balance of the respective Deferral Account, determined as of the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date and payable as soon as administratively practicable thereafter; or 
       
           (b) 
    Annual, semi-annual or quarterly installments payable over a five (5), ten (10) or fifteen (15) year period, and commencing on the respective Deferred Benefit Commencement Date.   
       
  If the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant has elected to receive such Deferred Benefits in installments, the amount payable in the first year of such installments shall be an amount that will fully amortize the balance in the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Deferral Account determined as of the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date over the five (5), ten (10), or fifteen (15) year period.  Thereafter, the amount payable in each succeeding year shall be adjusted to an amount that will fully amortize the remaining balance in such Deferral Account over the remaining years in the aforesaid five (5), ten (10), or fifteen (15) year installment period. 
    
           2.3 
    Postponing Distribution  .  A SA Grandfathered Plan Participant may revise or change any election or instruction relating to the Deferred Benefits contained in any Election Form, other than the election amount, by submitting to the Company a revised Election Form at least ninety (90) days prior to the effective date of such revision or change;   provided  ,   however  , that the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant cannot change the deferral or payment period with respect to a particular election if payouts have commenced under such election.   
       
           2.4 
    Insurance Fund Payments  .  Proceeds of life insurance purchased with amounts credited to an Insurance Fund shall be payable as provided in the respective policy or policies and the applicable insurance proceeds payment agreement.  The Insurance Fund is the fund available to eligible SA Grandfathered Plan Participants for use in purchasing life insurance.  Amounts credited to an Insurance Fund shall be used to pay premiums on life insurance insuring the life of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant, or, at the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's election, the lives of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant and his or her spouse on a joint and survivor basis, pursuant to such policies of insurance, and with such insurers, as the Company may determine from time to time.  The Company shall be the owner of such insurance policy or policies. 

ARTICLE-3 
  Payment of Deferred Benefits 
    
           3.1 
    Termination of Employment  .  Except as provided in Article 2, and for amounts deferred into an Insurance Fund, Deferred Benefits shall be paid to a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant upon his or her termination of employment, as follows: 
       
           (a) 
    Upon the involuntary termination of a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's employment, the amount in each Deferral Account shall be payable to the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant either (i) in the manner specified by the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant in his or her Election Form to apply in the event of his or her involuntary termination of employment; or (ii) if no such specification is made, on the Deferred Benefit Commencement  
       3 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

Date that applies to such Deferral Account, pursuant to the method requested by the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant in his or her Election Form. 
    
           (b) 
    Without exception, upon the voluntary termination of a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's employment prior to attaining fifty-five (55) years of age: 
       
           (i) 
    the amounts in each of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Deferral Accounts shall cease to earn interest and the balance of each Deferral Account shall be determined as of the nearest pay date following the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's termination of employment date; and 
       
           (ii) 
    the Company shall pay the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant the balance of each such Deferral Account not according to the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's elections as specified in his or her Election Forms but in a lump sum, to be paid within sixty (60) days of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's voluntary termination of employment. 
       
           (c) 
    Upon the voluntary termination of a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's employment after attaining age fifty-five (55) or older, the Company will pay out to such SA Grandfathered Plan Participant all amounts in his or her Deferral Account in accordance with the instructions in the applicable Election Form.       
       
  3.2        Total Disability  . 
    
           (a) 
    Upon the determination of a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Total Disability, the Company shall pay the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant the balance in each of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Deferral Accounts (except for amounts deferred into an Insurance Fund) as if the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant had been terminated involuntarily, as set forth in Section 3.1(a), unless the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant has specified in his or her Election Form a different manner of payment. 
       
           (b) 
    A SA Grandfathered Plan Participant may change the form of payment of the Total Disability benefit by completing an Election Form in accordance with Section 2.3, above. 
       
           (c) 
    Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of Article 6 of the Plan will not govern a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Total Disability benefits. 
       
           3.3 
    Death  .  Deferred Benefits shall be paid upon the death of a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant (expect for amounts deferred into an Insurance Fund), as follows: 
       
           (a) 
    Upon the death of a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant, the Company shall pay the amounts in each of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Deferral Accounts to the Beneficiary designated by the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant with respect to each deferral election in each of his or her respective Election Forms, or, if the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant fails to so designate a Beneficiary, to his or her surviving spouse.  If the SA Grandfathered  
       4 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

Plan Participant has no surviving spouse, then the benefits shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's estate. 
    
           (b) 
    If the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant dies prior to his or her termination of employment date, the Company shall pay to each respective Beneficiary, or to the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's estate, as the case may be, the amounts in each of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's respective Deferral Accounts, in the same manner as for the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant who has been terminated involuntarily, as set forth in Section 3.1(a). 
       
           (c) 
    If the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant dies following his or her termination of employment date but prior to his or her receiving the full payment of all Deferred Benefits payable to him or her, the Company shall pay to each of the respective Beneficiaries or to the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's estate, as the case may be, the same Deferred Benefit in the same manner as it otherwise would have paid to the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant as if the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant had not died, unless the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant has specified in his or her Election Form a different manner of payment to a Beneficiary. 
       
           (d) 
    Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, a Beneficiary may request a different payment schedule than what has been elected by the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant, if such change does not further defer the scheduled payout, by submitting a request in writing to the Company.  The granting of any such request shall be within the discretion of the Company. 
       
           (e) 
    If a Beneficiary who is receiving Deferred Benefits pursuant to the SA Grandfathered Plan dies, the remainder of the Deferred Benefits to which such Beneficiary was entitled at the time of his or her death shall continue to be payable to the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by such Beneficiary in writing to the Company (or to the Beneficiary's estate or heirs if he or she fails to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries). 

ARTICLE-4 
  Investment Options 

(a) 
    Effective January 1, 2009, a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant may select one or more investment options made available by the Company from time to time for his or her Deferral Account. Any investment option selection must specify the percentage of the amount specified in the deferral election to be invested in each investment option in one percent (1%) increments.  
       
           (b) 
    Any investment option selection made by a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant for the investment of his Account shall be made in accordance with this section.  The SA Grandfathered Plan Participant shall make the initial investment option selection on a form  
       5 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

provided by the Company.  Thereafter the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant may modify his or her initial investment option selections for past amounts deferred and/or for future deferrals in the manner established by the Company.  A SA Grandfathered Plan Participant may modify his or her investment option selections in accordance with procedures established from time to time by the Company.  Any modifications made in accordance with such procedures shall be implemented as soon as administratively practicable following the completion of the applicable procedures.  An investment option selection for a deferral election shall remain in effect until superseded by a subsequent investment option selection modification, or until the complete distribution of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's Deferred Benefits related to that deferral election. 
    
           (c) 
    If a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant fails to submit an investment option selection for a deferral Election, or if a SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's investment option selection does not equal one hundred percent (100%), the portion of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's deferral Election that is not subject to an investment option selection shall be invested in the Measurement Fund selected by the Company for this purpose. 

ARTICLE-5 
  Hardship Withdrawals 
    
           5.1 
    Hardship Withdrawals  .  A SA Grandfathered Plan Participant may request a Hardship Withdrawal of all or a portion of his or her Deferred Benefits (excluding amounts deferred into a Insurance Fund) before the Deferred Benefit Commencement Date, as follows: 
       
           (a) 
    The request for withdrawal must be to meet an  unforeseeable emergency.  
       
           (b) 
    For purposes of this Article V, an unforeseeable emergency is a severe financial hardship to the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant resulting from a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant or a dependent of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant, loss of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's property due to casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant.  The circumstances that will constitute an unforeseeable emergency will depend upon the facts of each case, but, in any case, a hardship withdrawal may not be made to the extent that such hardship is or may be relieved: 
       
           (i) 
    Through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, or 
       
           (ii) 
    By liquidation of the SA Grandfathered Plan Participant's assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship. 
       
           (c) 
    The request for a Hardship Withdrawal must be made in writing to the Company and shall state the amount requested, the unforeseeable emergency to which the  
       6 

      Cisco Systems, Inc.         
  2009 Deferred Compensation Plan 
  Supplement B 

amount will be applied and shall also affirm that no other assets are reasonably available to meet the emergency. 
    
           (d) 
    The Company shall consider applicable regulatory standards in assessing whether to grant a request for a Hardship Withdrawal. 

7 

</EX-10.7>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 exh211-subsidiariesofthere.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Exh 21.1- Subsidiaries of  the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21.1 
  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 
            
                  Subsidiaries 
      
    State Or Other 
  Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation or 
  Organization 
      Airespace Wireless Networks Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Aironet Canada Inc. 
      
    Canada 
      Aironet Canada Limited 
      
    Canada 
      Beaumaris Networks, Inc. (aka BNI) 
      
    Delaware 
      Beaumaris Software Research   Development (China) 
      
    China 
      Beijing NDS Information Technology Co. Ltd 
      
    China 
      BroadHop EMEA, SAS 
      
    France 
      BroadHop India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Broadhop International B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Broadhop International B.V. (UK Permanent Establishment) 
      
    United Kingdom 
      BroadHop, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      BroadHop Pte. Ltd 
      
    Singapore 
      BroadHop SDN, BHD 
      
    Malaysia 
      Callway LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cariden Federal LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cariden Technologies Hong Kong Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Cariden Technolgoies LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      CastUp LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Castup Israel LLC 
      
    Israel 
      "Cisco Albania" SHPK  
      
    Albania 
      Cisco Bahrain (SPC) 
      
    Bahrain 
      Cisco Bilgisayar ve Internet Sistemleri Limited Sirketi 
      
    Turkey 
      Cisco Capital (Dubai) Limited 
      
    United Arab Emirates 
      Cisco China Holdings (HK) Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Cisco Comercio e Servicos de Hardware e Software do Brasil Ltda 
      
    Brazil 
      Cisco Commerce India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Cisco Development India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Cisco do Brasil Ltda. 
      
    Brazil 
      Cisco Fast Data, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco Holdings Caymen Ltd 
      
    Caymen Islands 
      Cisco International Israel Limited 
      
    Israel 
      Cisco International Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Cisco International Taiwan, Ltd. 
      
    Taiwan 
      Cisco Internetworking Systems Hellas S.A. 
      
    Greece 
      Cisco Iris, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco Ironport Systems LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco ISH B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco ISH II B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Linksys Kiss ApS 
      
    Denmark 
      Cisco Malaysia Managed Services SDN. BHD. 
      
    Malaysia 
      Cisco Managed Services Nigeria Limited 
      
    Nigeria 
      Cisco Managed Solutions, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco MO B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Norway AS 
      
    Norway 
      Cisco Norway Holdings AS 
      
    Norway 
      Cisco Optical GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Cisco Photonics Italy S.r.l. 
      
    Italy 
      Cisco QSTP-LLC 
      
    Qatar 
      Cisco Ravenscourt LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco Renting Italy S.r.l 
      
    Italy 
      Cisco RZ LLC 
      
    California 
      Cisco Saudi Arabia Limited 
      
    Saudi Arabia 
      Cisco Serbia doo Beograd 
      
    Serbia, Republic of 
      Cisco Services (Hong Kong) Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 

1 

Subsidiaries 
      
    State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      Cisco Services Korea Limited 
      
    Korea, Republic of 
      Cisco Services Malaysia SDN BHD 
      
    Malaysia 
      Cisco Systems (Argentina) S.A. 
      
    Argentina 
      Cisco Systems (Bermuda) Holdings Ltd. 
      
    Bermuda 
      Cisco Systems (China) Information Technology Services Limited 
      
    China 
      Cisco Systems (China) Networking Technology Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Cisco Systems (China) Research and Development Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Cisco Systems (Colombia) Limitada 
      
    Colombia 
      Cisco Systems (Czech Republic) s.r.o. 
      
    Czech Republic 
      Cisco Systems (Ethiopia) PLC 
      
    Ethiopia 
      Cisco Systems (HK) Holdings Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Cisco Systems (HK) Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Cisco Systems (India) Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Cisco Systems (Italy) S.r.l. 
      
    Italy 
      Cisco Systems (Jordan) 
      
    Jordan 
      Cisco Systems (Korea) Limited 
      
    Republic of Korea 
      Cisco Systems (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. 
      
    Malaysia 
      Cisco Systems (Nigeria) Limited 
      
    Nigeria 
      Cisco Systems (Puerto Rico) Corp. 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco Systems (Scotland) Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Cisco Systems (Senegal) SUARL 
      
    Senegal 
      Cisco Systems (Shanghai) Video Technology Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Cisco Systems (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited 
      
    South Africa 
      Cisco Systems (Spain), S.L. 
      
    Spain 
      Cisco Systems (Sweden) AB 
      
    Sweden 
      Cisco Systems (Switzerland) GmbH 
      
    Switzerland 
      Cisco Systems (Switzerland) Investments Ltd. 
      
    Bermuda 
      Cisco Systems (Thailand) Limited 
      
    Thailand 
      Cisco Systems (Trinidad   Tobago) Limited 
      
    Trinidad and Tobago 
      Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 
      Cisco Systems Algeria EURL 
      
    Algeria 
      Cisco Systems Australia Pty Limited 
      
    Australia 
      Cisco Systems Austria GmbH 
      
    Austria 
      Cisco Systems Belgium SPRL 
      
    Belgium 
      Cisco Systems Bulgaria EOOD 
      
    Bulgaria 
      Cisco Systems Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Canada CIE 
      
    Canada 
      Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty Limited 
      
    Australia 
      Cisco Systems Capital (India) Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Cisco Systems Capital (Korea) Limited 
      
    Korea, Republic of 
      Cisco Systems Capital (Thailand) Limited 
      
    Thailand 
      Cisco Systems Capital Asia Pte. Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 
      Cisco Systems Capital Canada Co./Les Systemes Cisco Capital Canada CIE 
      
    Canada 
      Cisco Systems Capital China Corporation 
      
    China 
      Cisco Systems Capital Corporation 
      
    Nevada 
      Cisco Systems Capital France SAS 
      
    France 
      Cisco Systems Capital GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Cisco Systems Capital Italy S.r.l. 
      
    Italy 
      Cisco Systems Capital K.K. 
      
    Japan 
      Cisco Systems Capital Netherlands B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Systems Capital SDN. BHD. 
      
    Malaysia 
      Cisco Systems Capital South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
      
    South Africa 
      Cisco Systems Capital Spain, S.L. 
      
    Spain 
      Cisco Systems Chile S.A. 
      
    Chile 
      Cisco Systems Costa Rica, Sociedad Anonima 
      
    Costa Rica 
      Cisco Systems Croatia Ltd. For Trade 
      
    Croatia 
      Cisco Systems Cyprus Ltd. 
      
    Cyprus 

2 

Subsidiaries 
      
    State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      Cisco Systems Danmark ApS 
      
    Denmark 
      Cisco Systems de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 
      Cisco Systems Dominicana, S.R.L 
      
    Dominican Republic 
      Cisco Systems Ecuador S.A. 
      
    Ecuador 
      Cisco Systems Egypt Ltd. 
      
    Egypt 
      Cisco Systems El Salvador, Ltda. de C.V. 
      
    El Salvador 
      Cisco Systems Estonia OU 
      
    Estonia 
      Cisco Systems Finance International 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings I Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings II Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings III Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings IV Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings V Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International Holdings VI Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Finance International, UK (Permanent Establishment of the Ireland Entity) 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Cisco Systems Finland OY 
      
    Finland 
      Cisco Systems France Sarl 
      
    France 
      Cisco Systems G.K. 
      
    Japan 
      Cisco Systems Global Holdings Ltd. 
      
    Bermuda 
      Cisco Systems GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Cisco Systems Holding GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Cisco Systems Holdings UK Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Cisco Systems Hungary Ltd. / Cisco Systems Hungary Servicing and Trading Limited Liability Company 
      
    Hungary 
      Cisco Systems International B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Systems International SARL 
      
    Switzerland 
      Cisco Systems Internetworking (Ireland) Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Cisco Systems Internetworking d.o.o. Za Marketing, Tehnicke I Druge Usluge Sarajevo 
      
    Bosnia/Herzegovina 
      Cisco Systems Internetworking Iletisim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi 
      
    Turkey 
      Cisco Systems Island Ehf. 
      
    Iceland 
      Cisco Systems Israel Ltd. 
      
    Israel 
      Cisco Systems Jamaica Limited 
      
    Jamaica 
      Cisco Systems Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Cisco Systems LLC 
      
    Oman 
      Cisco Systems Luxembourg International s.  r.l. 
      
    Luxembourg 
      Cisco Systems Luxembourg s.  r.l. 
      
    Luxembourg 
      Cisco Systems Macedonia DOOEL Skopje 
      
    Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of     
      Cisco Systems Management B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Systems Management GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Cisco Systems Management Ltd. 
      
    Bermuda 
      Cisco Systems Netherlands Holdings B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Systems New Zealand Limited 
      
    New Zealand 
      Cisco Systems Norway AS 
      
    Norway 
      Cisco Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited 
      
    Pakistan 
      Cisco Systems Panama S. de R.L. 
      
    Panama 
      Cisco Systems Peru S.A. 
      
    Peru 
      Cisco Systems Poland Sp. z o. o. 
      
    Poland 
      Cisco Systems Portugal - Sistemas Inform ticos, Sociedade Unipessoal, Limitada 
      
    Portugal 
      Cisco Systems Romania S.r.l. 
      
    Romania 
      Cisco Systems Services B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      Cisco Systems Slovakia, spol. s. r.o. 
      
    Slovakia 
      Cisco Systems Taiwan, Ltd. 
      
    Taiwan 
      Cisco Systems Uruguay S.R.L 
      
    Uruguay 
      Cisco Systems Venezuela, C.A. 
      
    Venezuela 
      Cisco Systems Vietnam Limited (Cong Ty Trach Nhiem Huu Han Cisco Systems Vietnam) 
      
    Vietnam 
      Cisco Technologies New Zealand 
      
    New Zealand 
    
      Cisco Technologies Phillippines, Inc. 

Phillippines 

3 

Subsidiaries 
      
    State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      Cisco Technologies (Thailand) Limited 
      
    Thailand 
      Cisco Technology Belguim BVBA 
      
    Belgium 
      Cisco Technology Denmark ApS 
      
    Denmark 
      Cisco Technology Services (Dalian) Co. Ltd 
      
    China 
      Cisco Technology (China) Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Cisco Technology and Services (South Africa) Pty. Ltd. 
      
    South Africa 
      Cisco Technology Bangladesh Ltd. 
      
    Bangladesh 
      Cisco Technology, Inc. 
      
    California 
      Cisco THV LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco Tunisia SARL 
      
    Tunisia 
      Cisco Video Technologies France 
      
    France 
      Cisco Video Technologies India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Cisco Video Technologies Israel Ltd. 
      
    Israel 
      Cisco WebEx LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cisco Worldwide Holdings Ltd. 
      
    Bermuda 
      Cisco-Linksys (HK) Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Cisco-Navini Networks LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Clear Access LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cloupia Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Cloupia LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Cloupia Software Solutions Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Cognitive Security s.r.o 
      
    Czech Republic 
      CoreOptics LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      CSI BD (Mauritius) 
      
    Mauritius 
      CSI Mauritius Inc. 
      
    Mauritius 
      Digi-Media Vision Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Divitech A/S 
      
    United Kingdom 
      ExtendMedia LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      ExtendMedia ULC 
      
    Canada 
      Greenfield Networks LLC 
      
    California 
      Greenfield Networks Technologies Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Infogear Technology (Israel) Ltd. 
      
    Israel 
      Inlet Technologies LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Intucell LLC 
      
    Delware 
      Intucell Ltd. 
      
    Israel 
      Intucell Ptd. Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 
      Jabber LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      JouleX Gmbh 
      
    Germany 
      JouleX KK 
      
    Japan 
      JouleX LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Joulex Pte. Ltd 
      
    Singapore 
      JouleX Sarl 
      
    France 
      Jungo Limited 
      
    Israel 
      Jungo Software Technologies LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Lightwire LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Limited Liability Company Cisco Capital CIS 
      
    Russian Federation 
      Limited Liability Company Cisco Innovation Center 
      
    Russian Federation 
      Limited Liability Company Cisco Systems 
      
    Russian Federation 
      Limited Liability Company Cisco Solutions 
      
    Russian Federation 
      Meraki Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Meraki LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Moto Asia Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Moto Development Group LLC 
      
    California 
      NDS Americas LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      NDS Asia Pacific Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      NDS Denmark ApS 
      
    Denmark 
      NDS Denmark Holdings A/S 
      
    Denmark 

4 

Subsidiaries 
      
    State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      NDS Finance Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      NDS GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      NDS Group Holdings Limited 
      
    Bermuda 
      NDS Group Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      NDS Holdings (Europe) Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      NDS Holdings B.V 
      
    Netherlands 
      NDS Holdings B.V. (UK Establishment) 
      
    United Kingdom 
      NDS Investments AB 
      
    Sweden 
      NDS Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      NDS Marketing Israel Limited 
      
    Israel 
      NDS SE Asia Pte Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 
      NDS Sweden 
      
    Sweden 
      NDS Technologies Canada ULC 
      
    Canada 
      NDS Treasury (Americas), LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      NDS Treasury (Jersey) Limited 
      
    Jersey 
      News Datacom Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Navini Networks Private Limited 
      
    India 
      newScale LLC 
      
    California 
      newScale Software Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Newshelf 1107 (Proprietary) Limited 
      
    South Africa 
      Orative Corporation 
      
    Delaware 
      Pari Networks (India) Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Pari Networks LLC 
      
    California 
      Postpath LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      PostX LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      PT Cisco Systems Indonesia 
      
    Indonesia 
      PT. Cisco Technologies Indonesia 
      
    Indonesia 
      Pure Digital Technologies LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Pure Networks LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Radiata, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Reactivity LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Rohati Systems, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Scansafe Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Scansafe LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Scansafe Services LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Scientific-Atlanta Belgium BVBA 
      
    Belgium 
      Scientific-Atlanta China, LLC 
      
    California 
      Scientific-Atlanta do Brasil Ltda. 
      
    Brazil 
      Scientific-Atlanta Europe BVBA 
      
    Belgium 
      Scientific-Atlanta, LLC 
      
    Georgia 
      Securent India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Securent LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      SIA "Cisco Latvia" 
      
    Latvia 
      Small Wells Services S.A. 
      
    Uruguay 
      SolveDirect Service Management GmbH 
      
    Austria 
      SolveDirect Service Management LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Starent International LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Starent Networks (India) Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Starent Networks Beijing Co, Ltd 
      
    China 
      Starent Networks Canada Limited 
      
    Canada 
      Starent Networks India Sales and Services Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Starent Networks LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      SVPLA LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Tandberg Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 
      
    Singapore 
      Tandberg India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Tandberg Products UK Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Tandberg Technology (India) Private Limited 
      
    India 

5 

Subsidiaries 
      
    State Or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
      Tandberg Telecom UK Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Taskdock LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      ThinkSmart Technologies Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Tidal Software LLC 
      
    California 
      TigerMe LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Topspin Communications LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Topspin Communications Technologies India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Truviso LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      UAB "Cisco LT" 
      
    Lithuania 
      Ubiquisys (USA) LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Ubiquisys KK 
      
    Japan 
      Ubiquisys Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      vCider LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Viruata LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      WebEx (China) Software Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      WebEx Asia Limited 
      
    Hong Kong 
      WebEx Australia Pty Ltd. 
      
    Australia 
      WebEx Communications B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 
      WebEx Communications Deutschland GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      WebEx Communications France Sarl 
      
    France 
      WebEx Communications India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      WebEx Communications Japan, K.K. 
      
    Japan 
      WebEx Communications UK, Ltd. 
      
    United Kingdom 
      WebEx Worldwide B.V. 
      
    Netherlands 

6 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 exh231-consentofindependen.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exh 23.1- Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

EXHIBIT 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.: 333-36156, 333-36156, 333-131723, 333-157177) dated May 3, 2000, May 9, 2000, February 10, 2006, and February 9, 2009, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. and on Form S-8 (Nos.: 33-63331, 33-64283, 333-64283 [Post Eff.], 333-01069, 333-02101, 333-05447 [Post Eff.], 333-09903, 333-14383, 333-14661, 333-14679, 333-16577, 333-17287, 333-24741, 333-33613, 333-33619, 333-35805, 333-01069 [Post Eff.], 333-34849 [Post Eff.], 33-40509 [Post Eff.], 33-44221 [Post Eff.], 33-71860 [Post Eff.], 33-87096 [Post Eff.], 333-42249, 333-47159, 333-48949, 333-48949 [Post Eff.], 333-51093, 333-51315, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-64651, 333-65871,333-68335, 333-69117, 333-74237, 333-79717, 333-79721, 333-81971, 333-83045, 333-83277, 333-88695, 333-88699, 333-88831, 333-90883, 333-90885, 333-83227 [Post Eff.], 333-91813, 333-91911, 333-93283, 333-93281, 333-96203, 333-35246, 333-36124, 333-36414, 333-39108, 333-39902, 333-43120, 333-43632, 333-45478, 333-51114, 333-54248, 333-55742, 333-56224, 333-56756, 333-56916, 333-58556, 333-76184, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-91258, 333-96797, 333-42249 [Post Eff.], 333-105300, 333-106284, 333-111977, 333-111995, 333-113993, 333-114558, 333-118238, 333-119954, 333-120064, 333-120843, 333-120844, 333-121307, 333-122946, 333-123872, 333-125568, 333-125573, 333-126430, 333-126841, 333-128755, 333-129719, 333-132050, 333-133436, 333-135687, 333-137653, 333-137654, 333-139175, 333-140069, 333-141123, 333-141945, 333-142332, 333-142333, 333-143389, 333-143506, 333-143997, 333-144305, 333-147522, 333-147523, 333-147763, 333-148576, 333-153248, 333-153808, 333-155494, 333-157368, 333-159679, 333-159681, 333-163864, 333-163953, 333-163954, 333-167430, 333-168364, 333-169653, 333-169655, 333-171659, 333-173061, 333-173062, 333-174715, 333-176862, 333-178266, 333-180455, 333-180458, 333-181082, 333-185592, 333-185594, 333-185597, 333-185663, 333-185666, 333-185667, 333-186100, 333-187090, 333-189354, 333-189931, and 333-190733) dated October 11, 1995, November 15, 1995, February 20, 1996, February 20, 1996, April 1, 1996, July 29, 1996, August 9, 1996, October 18, 1996, October 23, 1996, October 23, 1996, November 21, 1996, December 5, 1996, April 8, 1997, August 14, 1997, August 14, 1997, September 17, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 15, 1997, March 2, 1998, March 31, 1998, April 13, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 29, 1998, September 28, 1998, September 29, 1998, October 19, 1998, December 3, 1998, December 17, 1998, March 11, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 30, 1999, July 16, 1999, July 20, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 8, 1999, October 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 12, 1999, November 30, 1999, December 1, 1999, December 21, 1999, December 21, 1999, February 4, 2000, April 20, 2000, May 2, 2000, May 5, 2000, June 12, 2000, June 22, 2000, August 4, 2000, August 11, 2000, September 8, 2000, December 1, 2000, January 24, 2001, February 16, 2001, February 26, 2001, March 8, 2001, March 12, 2001, April 9, 2001, January 2, 2002, June 25, 2002, June 26, 2002, July 19, 2002, August 20, 2002, May 15, 2003, June 19, 2003, January 16, 2004, January 16, 2004, March 29, 2004, April 19, 2004, August 13, 2004, October 26, 2004, October 29, 2004, November 30, 2004, November 30, 2004, December 16, 2004, February 22, 2005, April 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, June 6, 2005, July 6, 2005, July 25, 2005, September 30, 2005, November 15, 2005, February 27, 2006, April 20, 2006, July 11, 2006, September 28, 2006, September 28, 2006, December 7, 2006, January 18, 2007, March 7, 2007, April 6, 2007, April 24, 2007, April 24, 2007, May 31, 2007, June 5, 2007, June 22, 2007, July 3, 2007, November 20, 2007, November 20, 2007, December 3, 2007, January 10, 2008, August 29, 2008, October 2, 2008, November 20, 2008, February 17, 2009, June 2, 2009, June 2, 2009, December 18, 2009, December 23, 2009, December 23, 2009, June 10, 2010, July 28, 2010, September 29, 2010, September 29, 2010, January 12, 2011, March 25, 2011, March 25, 2011, June 3, 2011, September 16, 2011, December 1, 2011, March 29, 2012, March 29, 2012, May 1, 2012, December 20, 2012, December 20, 2012, December 20, 2012, December 24, 2012, December 24, 2012, December 24, 2012, January 18, 2013, March 6, 2013, June 14, 2013, July 12, 2013, and August 20, 2013, respectively, of Cisco Systems, Inc. of our report dated   September 10, 2013   relating to the consolidated financial statements, financial statement schedule, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. 
  /s/ P  RICEWATERHOUSE  C  OOPERS   LLP 
  San Jose, California 
  September 10, 2013    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 exh311-rule13ax14a15dx14ac.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exh. 31.1- RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, John T. Chambers, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
     Date:   September 10, 2013    

/s/ John T. Chambers 
      John T. Chambers 
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 exh312-rule13ax14a15dx14ac.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exh. 31.2- RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Frank A. Calderoni, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
     Date:   September 10, 2013    

/s/ Frank A. Calderoni 
      Frank A. Calderoni 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 exh321-section1350certific.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Exh. 32.1- SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 

EXHIBIT 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, John T. Chambers, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge: 
             
    The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
                
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
     Date:   September 10, 2013 

/s/ John T. Chambers 
      John T. Chambers 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 exh322-section1350certific.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

Exh. 32.2- SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 

EXHIBIT 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Frank A. Calderoni, do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge: 
             
    The Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended July 27, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
                
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
     Date:   September 10, 2013 

/s/ Frank A. Calderoni 
      Frank A. Calderoni 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 csco-20130727.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 csco-20130727.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 csco-20130727_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 csco-20130727_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 csco-20130727_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 csco-20130727_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

