<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100301_10-K_edgar_data_1067983_0001193125-10-043450_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6510231</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>427381</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>955242</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1435383</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1582186</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1788624</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>97</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-043450.hdr.sgml : 20100301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100301060207
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-043450
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100301

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001067983
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				470813844
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14905
		FILM NUMBER:		10641888

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1440 KIEWIT PLZ
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4023461400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1440 KIEWIT PLAZA
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NBH INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980810

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Vq5P36xoSaC0jf5z03xcZQoja9i6yw3Bz2NidU4SzHc8sNV80Kwb74Wv58n85TUY
 jPZUOce79DAIjPmfwC4UVA==

 0001193125-10-043450.txt : 20100301

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K        ANNUAL REPORT        PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009      Commission file number 001-14905       BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        

     Registrant s telephone number, including area code (402) 346-1400        Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Class A common stock, $5.00 Par Value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Class B common stock, $0.0033 Par Value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE       Indicate by check mark if the Registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No    
       Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulations S-T during the
preceding 12 months.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    
       Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.:       

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer       
      
  Non-accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company            Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No           State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2009: $102,388,000,000*
     Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant s classes of common stock:       
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

Document    
      
     Incorporated In     
 
  Proxy Statement for Registrant s Annual Meeting to be held May 1, 2010  
      
  Part III        

*  
  This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock on June 30, 2009. It does not include the value of Class A common stock (389,726
shares) and Class B common stock (156,056,757 shares) held by Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their immediate families, some of whom may not constitute  affiliates  for purpose of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.                 

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents        

Page No.    

Part I   

Item 1.    
     
      Business     
      
  1   
 
     Item 1A.    
     
      Risk Factors     
      
  19   
 
     Item 1B.    
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments     
      
  21   
 
     Item 2.    
     
      Description of Properties     
      
  22   
 
     Item 3.    
     
      Legal Proceedings     
      
  26   
 
     Item 4.    
     
      Reserved      
      
  29   

Part II   

Item 5.    
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters     
      
  29   
 
     Item 6.    
     
      Selected Financial Data      
      
  30   
 
     Item 7.    
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations     
      
  31   
 
     Item 7A.    
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
      
  59   
 
     Item 8.    
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     
      
  60   

Consolidated Balance Sheets  December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008    

61   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  Year Ended December 31, 2009, December 
31, 2008, and December 31, 2007    
      
  62   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Year Ended December 31, 2009, December 
31, 2008, and December 31, 2007     
      
  63   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholder s Equity and Comprehensive Income  Year Ended
 December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007    
      
  64   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
      
  65   
 
     Item 9.    
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure     
      
  98   
 
     Item 9A.    
     
      Controls and Procedures     
      
  98   
 
     Item 9B.    
     
      Other Information     
      
  98   

Part III   

Item 10.    
     
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     
      
  98   
 
     Item 11.    
     
      Executive Compensation     
      
  98   
 
     Item 12.    
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

98   
 
     Item 13.    
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
      
  98   
 
     Item 14.    
     
      Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
      
  98   

Part IV   

Item 15.    
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  99   

Signatures    
      
  100   
 
     Exhibit Index    
      
  104    

Table of Contents  

    Part I        

Item 1.   
   Business         Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire,   Company  or  Registrant ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both
a primary basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is
located in Omaha, Nebraska.      Berkshire s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are
essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the
operating businesses. Berkshire s corporate office management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the
operating businesses.       Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses       Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through approximately 70 domestic and foreign-based insurance
entities. Berkshire s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident and health risks world-wide.      In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to
the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other
primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.      Reinsurance contracts are normally classified
as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks.
Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums, losses and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer.
Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or  retention.  Both quota-share and excess reinsurance may
provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.      Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to
entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability,
financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.      Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to regulation by their state of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed or write policies on a non-admitted basis. The
primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business
and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company s authority to do business, as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders. Dividends and capital
distributions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.      Insurers may market, sell and service
insurance policies in the states that they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance
markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable from the admitted insurance markets of a state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as  excess and surplus  lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus
lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by insureds  direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms.
Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates and policy forms.      The insurance
regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual
statutory financial statements. However, an insurer s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In
        
   1   

Table of Contents  

addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters
deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.      Berkshire s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the
aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire s U.S. based insurers was approximately $64 billion at December 31, 2009. All of Berkshire s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard   Poor s Corporation, and
nearly all are currently rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and operating performance.      The insurance industry experienced severe losses from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. On November 26, 2002, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism
Insurance Program ( Program ) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses was signed into law. In December 2005, the Program was extended to December 31, 2007 through the
passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 and in December 2007, the Program was further extended to December 31, 2014 through the passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. Hereinafter the
2002, 2005 and 2007 Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying  acts of terrorism  as having been a terrorist act undertaken on behalf of a foreign person or interest
which resulted in an insured loss in excess of $5 million. TRIA currently establishes that the industry insured loss for a certified event must exceed $100 million. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance
coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed
reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. Beginning in 2006, TRIA also excluded certain forms of direct insurance (such as commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Terrorism exclusions
that were contained within reinsurance contracts remain in effect. Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.      In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of
policyholder notification requirements) for 85% of their insured losses in excess of a company deductible. Under the December 2007 Program extension, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines
of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2010 will be approximately $350 million. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year.
     For many years, the insurance industry has been subject to personal injury claims arising from exposure to asbestos. The
magnitude of such losses has caused many manufacturers to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Over the years, large numbers of asbestos related claims have been filed, including claims based upon exposure to asbestos, even though no
related illness has been identified. Consequently, the U.S. Congress has periodically introduced legislation to assure that resources are available to indemnify claimants suffering from asbestos-related illnesses and to manage the overall cost of
those claims. To date, no legislation has passed. It is highly uncertain as to whether or not any legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, how the provisions of such laws will affect Berkshire.      Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the differing laws and regulations of each country in which
the insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose complex regulatory requirements on insurance businesses while other jurisdictions impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are required to be
licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements
may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries have historically provided insuring capacity to insurance syndicates at Lloyd s of London. Such capacity entitles the Berkshire
subsidiaries to a share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicates in proportion to the amount of capacity provided. This business is subject to regulation by the U.K. s Financial Services Authority which maintains
comprehensive rules and regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of managing agents and syndicates.      Berkshire s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and
(4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain retroactive reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time creating
 float  (see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is earned premiums less
        
   2   

Table of Contents  

associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include investment income earned from investments, including
investments of  float.  Additional information related to each of Berkshire s four underwriting groups follows.       GEICO  GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its principal insurance subsidiaries include: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company and GEICO Casualty Company.
These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles and small commercial fleets and
acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, boat and life insurance to individuals. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via
the Internet, by telephone or through the mail.      GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other
companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use a traditional agency sales force. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies exacerbate price
competition by selling their products for a period of time at less than adequate rates. This arises as a result of underestimating ultimate claim costs and/or overestimating the amount of investment income expected to be earned from the cash flow
generated as a result of premiums being received before claims are paid. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy.      As a
result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, voluntary policies-in-force have increased about 58% over the past five years. GEICO is currently the third largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms of
premium volume. According to A.M. Best data for 2008, the five largest automobile insurers had a combined 49.3% market share, with GEICO s share being 7.7%. Seasonal variations in GEICO s insurance business are not significant. However,
extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.      Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for preferred-risk private passenger automobile
insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. Price tends to be the primary focus for other risks. GEICO s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction
enable it to offer competitive rates and value to customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims.      The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.       General Re  General Re Corporation ( General Re ) is the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation ( GRC ) and its subsidiaries and affiliates. GRC s
subsidiaries include K lnische R ckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG ( Cologne Re ), a major international reinsurer based in Germany. GRC increased its ownership in Cologne Re during 2009 from 95% to 100%. General Re
subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 55 cities and provide insurance and reinsurance coverages throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other
reinsurance intermediary and risk management, underwriting management and investment management services. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium volume and shareholder capital.        Property/Casualty Reinsurance        General Re s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through GRC domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii where it is an
accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 16 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to clients without
involving a broker or intermediary. Coverages are written primarily on an excess basis and under treaty and facultative contracts. In 2009, approximately 28% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance coverages and 56%
related to property reinsurance coverages.      General Re s property/casualty business in North America also includes a few
smaller specialty insurers (primarily the General Star and Genesis companies domiciled in Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio). These specialty insurers underwrite primarily liability and workers  compensation coverages on an excess and surplus
basis and excess insurance for self-insured programs. In 2009, the specialty insurers represented approximately 16% of General Re s North American property/casualty net written premiums.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   General Re s international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are
conducted through internationally-based subsidiaries on a direct basis (via Cologne Re as well as several other General Re subsidiaries in 26 countries) and through brokers (primarily via Faraday, which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at
Lloyd s of London and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435). Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of property, aviation and casualty reinsurance coverage. In 2009,
international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis.        Life/Health Reinsurance        General Re s North American and
international life, health, long-term care and disability reinsurance coverages are written on an individual and group basis. Most of this business is written on a proportional treaty basis, with the exception of the U.S. group health and disability
business which is predominately written on an excess treaty basis. Lesser amounts of life and disability business are written on a facultative basis. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2009, approximately 42% of life/health
net premiums were written in the United States, 29% were written in Western Europe and the remaining 29% were written throughout the rest of the world.       Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted
through a group of subsidiary companies, led by National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) and Columbia Insurance Company ( Columbia ). BHRG provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers
and reinsurers. The type and volume of insurance and reinsurance business written by BHRG is dependent on current market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms as perceived by management, and can change rapidly. The level
of BHRG s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets.      For many years BHRG has written catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty reinsurance contracts. BHRG also writes individual policies for primarily
large or otherwise unusual discrete risks on both an excess direct and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as  individual risk,  which includes policies covering terrorism, natural catastrophe and aviation risks. A catastrophe
excess policy provides protection to the counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a single loss event or series of related events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of
indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce losses under a number of contracts.      BHRG generally does not
cede risks assumed under catastrophe excess reinsurance contracts or individual risk contracts to third parties due to, in part, perceived uncertainties in recovering amounts from other reinsurers that are financially weaker. As a result,
catastrophe and individual risk business produces extremely volatile periodic underwriting results. The extraordinary financial strength of NICO and Columbia are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of such
coverages.      BHRG has entered into several retroactive reinsurance contracts over the past several years. Retroactive
reinsurance contracts afford protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an excess basis and is normally subject to a
large aggregate limit of indemnification. Significant amounts of environmental and latent injury claims may arise under the contracts. In March 2007, an agreement became effective between NICO and Equitas, a London based entity established to
reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years  non-life liabilities of the Names or Underwriters at Lloyd s of London. Under the agreement NICO is providing up to $7 billion of new excess reinsurance to Equitas. In 2009, NICO agreed to
provide up to 5 billion Swiss Francs (approximately $4.7 billion) of aggregate excess retroactive protection to Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. and its affiliates ( Swiss Re ).      In BHRG s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing prices and
contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting
losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds ( float ) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment income in future periods.      BHRG also underwrites traditional non-catastrophe insurance and reinsurance coverages, referred to as multi-line business. Effective
January 1, 2008, traditional non-catastrophe reinsurance includes a five-year 20% quota-share of property and casualty business underwritten by Swiss Re. This reinsurance contract and the retroactive contract referenced above represented about
70% of the aggregate net premiums written by BHRG in 2009. BHRG has also negotiated the acquisition of certain property and casualty insurance businesses in run-off, including the North American insurance subsidiaries of Converium Holdings AG, which
were acquired in 2006 and the reinsurance subsidiaries of ING Groep N.V. which were acquired in 2008.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   In December 2007, BHRG formed a monoline financial guarantee insurance company, Berkshire
Hathaway Assurance Corporation ( BHAC ). BHAC commenced operations during the first quarter of 2008 and is licensed in 49 states. The volume of premiums written in 2009 declined significantly from 2008, primarily as a result of changing
market conditions.       Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is a collection of
primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to insureds located principally in the United States. NICO and certain affiliates underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on
both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.      U.S. Investment Corporation ( USIC ), through its three subsidiaries led by U.S. Liability Insurance Company, is a specialty insurer that underwrites commercial, professional and personal lines
of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale insurance agents. USIC companies underwrite and market approximately 95 distinct specialty property and
casualty insurance products.      In 2005, Berkshire acquired Medical Protective Corporation ( MedPro ) which is based
in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Through its subsidiary, the Medical Protective Company, MedPro is a national leader in primary medical professional liability coverage and risk solutions to physicians, dentists, professional corporations and healthcare
facilities. As one of the nation s first providers of medical professional liability insurance, MedPro has provided insurance coverage to healthcare providers for over 100 years. MedPro s insurance policies are distributed through a
nationwide network of employee market managers and appointed agents.      In 2006, Berkshire acquired Applied
Underwriters, Inc. ( Applied ), a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and medium-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries, including two workers  compensation insurance companies, principally markets
SolutionOne     , a product that bundles a variety of related insurance coverages and business services into a
seamless package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to medium-sized employers. The buyer of SolutionOne      receives an integrated product that is higher in quality and more cost effective than traditional multi-provider solutions.      In 2007, Berkshire acquired Boat America Corporation, which owns Seaworthy Insurance Company and controls the Boat Owners Association of the
United States (collectively  BoatU.S. ). BoatU.S. provides insurance, safety and other services to recreational watercraft owners and enthusiasts.      Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as the  Homestate Companies,  based in California, Colorado and Nebraska and with branch offices in several other states. These
companies market workers  compensation, commercial auto and various other commercial coverages for standard risks. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha located in Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income
protection insurance and related services marketed primarily to credit and debit card holders nationwide. The Kansas Bankers Surety Company is an insurer of primarily crime, fidelity, errors and omissions, officers  and directors 
liability and related insurance coverages directed toward small and medium-sized banks throughout the Midwest United States.       Property and
casualty loss reserves       Berkshire s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves for the estimated
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims or case estimates, provisions for incurred-but-not-reported ( IBNR )
claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques.
Reference is made to  Critical Accounting Policies,  included in Item 7 of this Report.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

   The table on the following page presents the development of Berkshire s net unpaid
losses for property/casualty contracts from 1999 through 2009. Data in the table related to acquisitions is included from the acquisition date forward.      The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years from the gross liability
reflected in Berkshire s Consolidated Balance Sheet to the net amount, after reductions for amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts and loss reserve discounts.      Certain workers  compensation loss reserves are discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of
4.5% per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring after 2002. In addition, deferred charges are recorded as assets at the inception of retroactive reinsurance contracts for the excess of the unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses over the premiums received. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period. Deferred charge amortization and loss reserve discount accretion are recorded as components of
insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.      The second section of the table shows the re-estimated net unpaid
losses, net of reserve discounts and deferred charges, based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The re-estimated amount reflects the effect of loss payments and re-estimation of remaining unpaid reserves. The line labeled
 cumulative deficiency (redundancy)  represents the aggregate increase (decrease) in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2009. These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as
components of losses and loss adjustment expenses and include accumulated reserve discount accruals and deferred charge amortization.      The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the other columns because redundancies or deficiencies arising in earlier years may be included as components of redundancies or deficiencies in the
more recent years. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in the year the contract was entered into, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is prior to the contract date. Due
to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such balances which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts are also provided.      The third part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net
liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, and the subsequent payments of
claims, readers are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances.        
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Berkshire s management believes that the reserves established as of December 31,
2009 are reasonable and adequate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.       

*  
  The amounts of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these operations are based on the applicable foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of the
re-estimation period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.         Investments  Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders
through insurance and reinsurance business ( float ). Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, unearned premiums
and other policyholder liabilities, less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts and related deferred income taxes.
     The amount of float has grown from approximately $46 billion at the end of 2004 to approximately $62 billion at the end of
2009, through internal growth as well as through business acquisitions. BHRG and General Re accounted for approximately 75% of total float as of December 31, 2009. Equally important as the amount of the float is its cost, represented by
Berkshire s periodic net underwriting gain or loss. The increases in the amount of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of
investments and investment income over the past five years.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of
other publicly traded companies which are concentrated in relatively few companies and large amounts of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity investments consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states
and municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily
managed by Berkshire s corporate office. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to investment activities. Rather, management may increase or decrease investments in response to
perceived changes in opportunities for income or price appreciation relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.       Utilities and Energy Businesses       Berkshire currently owns an 89.5% voting common stock interest in MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ), an international energy company. Following the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and approval by the appropriate federal and state regulatory authorities, on February 9,
2006, Berkshire converted its non-voting convertible preferred stock investment in MidAmerican to voting common stock. Prior to the conversion, Berkshire owned a 9.7% voting interest and an 83.4% (80.5% diluted) economic interest in MidAmerican.
     MidAmerican s businesses are managed as separate operating units. MidAmerican s domestic regulated energy interests
are comprised of two regulated utility companies serving more than 3 million retail customers and two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 17,000 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of more than 7.0 billion cubic
feet of natural gas per day. Its United Kingdom electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.8 million electricity end-users. In addition, MidAmerican s interests include a diversified portfolio of domestic independent power
projects, a hydroelectric facility in the Philippines and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.       General Matters       PacifiCorp, acquired by MidAmerican in March 2006, is a
public utility company headquartered in Portland, Oregon, serving regulated retail electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory s diverse regional economy ranges from
rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to
retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electric energy to other utilities, municipalities and marketers on a wholesale basis.      As a
vertically integrated electric utility, PacifiCorp owns approximately 10,500 net megawatts ( MW ) of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in PacifiCorp s business. Peak customer demand is typically highest in the summer
across PacifiCorp s service territory when air conditioning and irrigation systems are heavily used. The service territory also has a winter peak, which is primarily due to heating requirements in the western portion of PacifiCorp s
service territory.      MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ) is a public utility company headquartered in Des Moines,
Iowa, serving regulated retail electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer base consisting of residential, agricultural and a variety of commercial and
industrial customer groups. In addition to retail sales, MEC sells regulated electric energy to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and regulated electric energy and natural gas to other utilities, municipalities and marketers on
a wholesale basis and sells non-regulated electric and natural gas services in deregulated markets.      As a vertically
integrated electric and gas utility, MEC owns approximately 6,400 net MW of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in MEC s business that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for
heating. Typically, 35-40% of MEC s regulated electric revenues are reported in the summer months, while 45-55% of MEC s regulated natural gas revenues are reported in the winter months.      Northern Natural Gas Company ( Northern Natural ) is based in Omaha, Nebraska and owns one of the largest interstate natural gas
pipeline systems in the United States reaching from southern Texas to Michigan s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural s system consists of 15,000 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural has access to supplies from every major
mid-continent basin, as well as the Rocky Mountain, Williston and Canadian basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two
liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural s system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand, with the highest demand and revenue typically occurring during the months of November through March.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

   Kern River Gas Transmission Company ( Kern River ) is based in Salt Lake City,
Utah and owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that extends from the supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for major oil and natural gas companies or
affiliates of such companies, electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, financial institutions and natural gas distribution utilities. Kern River s system consists of 1,700 miles of natural gas pipelines and its
scheduled throughput regularly exceeds its design capacity.      MidAmerican, through Northern Electric Distribution Limited
( Northern Electric ) and Yorkshire Electricity Distribution plc ( Yorkshire Electricity ), owns a substantial United Kingdom electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in an area
covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of electrical infrastructure.       Regulatory Matters       PacifiCorp and MEC are subject to comprehensive
regulation by federal agencies, state utility commissions and other state and local regulatory agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ), an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal
Power Act and the Energy Policy Act and to assess civil penalties, regulates rates for interstate sales of electricity in wholesale markets; transmission of electric power, including pricing and expansion of transmission systems; electric system
reliability; utility holding companies; accounting; securities issuances; and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. Through MEC s ownership of the Quad Cities Station, MEC is subject to regulation by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.      Both PacifiCorp and MEC have a right to
serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, the obligation to provide service to those customers. Historically, state utility commissions have established rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a
utility an opportunity to recover its costs of providing services and to earn a reasonable return on its investment. The rates of PacifiCorp and MEC are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation,
transmission and distribution services.      Northern Natural and Kern River are subject to regulation by various federal and
state agencies. As owners of interstate natural gas pipelines and gas storage facilities, their rates, services and operations are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC administers, most significantly, the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas
Policy Act of 1978 giving it jurisdiction over the construction and operation of United States pipelines and related facilities used in the transportation, storage and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the extension, expansion or
abandonment of such facilities. The FERC also has jurisdiction over the rates, charges, terms and conditions of service for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. Interstate pipeline companies are also subject to
regulation by the United States Department of Transportation pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas
transportation facilities, and the Federal Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which implemented additional safety and pipeline integrity regulations for high consequence areas.      Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity charge fees for use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by
the British electricity regulatory body, the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets. The distribution price control formula is generally reviewed and reset at five-year intervals and the most recent review will result in a new formula taking effect
April 1, 2010.       Environmental Matters       MidAmerican and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and water quality,
renewable portfolio standards, climate change, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that impact MidAmerican s current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance
obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.      The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving
the nation s air quality and controlling mobile and stationary sources of air emissions. These laws and rules will likely impact the operation of MidAmerican s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities
through the installation of additional emission control equipment or to purchase additional emission allowances.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and
generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California and Iowa have all passed renewable portfolio standards.      As a result of increased attention to global climate change, there are significant environmental measures being proposed at the federal,
regional and state levels to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases and increase the deployment of clean energy technologies. Congress and federal policy makers are debating climate change legislation, such as the American Clean Energy and Security
Act of 2009, which includes a market-based greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program that would reduce emissions 83% below 2005 levels by 2050, and a variety of national climate change policies. President Obama has expressed support of Congress 
effort to adopt comprehensive climate change legislation. In addition, governmental and nongovernmental organizations and others have become more active in pursuing litigation under existing laws. The Environmental Protection Agency has determined
that greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere threaten the public health and welfare of current and future generations and is pursuing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the Federal Clean Air Act. While debate continues at the national
level over the direction of domestic climate policy, several states have developed or are developing state-specific laws or regional legislative initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.      MidAmerican continues to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, MidAmerican has 2,205 megawatts of wind generation
capacity and has added 1,611 megawatts in the last three years. The impact of any pending judicial proceedings and any pending or enacted federal and state climate change legislation and regulation cannot be quantified in any meaningful range at
this time; however, adoption of stringent limits on greenhouse gas emissions could significantly adversely impact MidAmerican s current and future fossil-fueled generating facilities, amounts charged to customers and therefore, its financial
results.       Non-Energy Businesses       MidAmerican also owns HomeServices of America, Inc. ( HomeServices ), the second largest full-service residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. HomeServices also offers
integrated real estate services, including mortgage origination, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties and other home-related services. It operates under 21 residential real estate brand names with
approximately 16,000 agents and approximately 300 broker offices in 20 states. HomeServices  principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year.
This business is highly competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions, which have deteriorated considerably in recent years.       Railroad Business       On February 12, 2010, Berkshire completed its acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa
Fe Corporation ( BNSF ). BNSF operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America with approximately 32,000 route miles of track, excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, approximately 23,000 miles of which are
owned route miles, including easements, in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. Approximately 9,000 route miles of BNSF s system consist of trackage rights that permit BNSF to operate its trains with its crews over other railroads 
tracks. BNSF has approximately 35,000 employees.      In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest and the Western, Southwestern and
Southeastern regions and ports of the country, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of the freight revenues of BNSF are covered by contractual
agreements of varying durations, while the balance is subject to common carrier, published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the
international, national and regional levels. BNSF s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as Canadian and Mexican traffic. In addition to major
cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline partners. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with CSX Transportation, Canadian National Railway Company and Kansas City
Southern Railway Company, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. In 2009, 32% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 21% from industrial products, 26% from coal and 21% from agricultural products.
        
   10   

Table of Contents  

    Regulatory Matters       BNSF is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the United States Department of Transportation
(DOT), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has
jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of, rail
common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF s business.      The DOT and OSHA have
jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety
in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.       Environmental Matters       BNSF s rail operations are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to water, air
emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental
risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.      Many of BNSF s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF
is now subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as the
Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liability for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be
responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third
parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF
operations.       Railroad Retirement       Railroad industry personnel are covered by the Railroad Retirement System ( RRS ) instead of Social Security. BNSF contributions under the RRS have been higher than those in industries covered
by Social Security. The RRS, funded primarily by payroll taxes on covered employers and employees, includes a benefit roughly equivalent to Social Security (Tier I), an additional benefit similar to that allowed in some private defined-benefit plans
(Tier II) and other benefits. For 2009, the RRS required up to a 19.75 percent contribution by railroad employers on eligible wages, while the Social Security and Medicare Acts only required a 7.65 percent contribution on similar wage bases.
      Competition       The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in
certain markets, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk,
time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads continue to develop and implement
operating efficiencies to improve productivity.      As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises,
competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also
operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2009 was approximately 49 percent.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

    Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses       Berkshire s numerous and diverse manufacturing, service and retailing businesses are described below.       Marmon  In 2008, Berkshire acquired approximately 64% of Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ), a private company owned by
trusts for the benefit of members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago for $4.8 billion. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, Berkshire will acquire the remaining equity interests in Marmon between 2011 and 2014 for consideration to be based on
the future earnings of Marmon.      Marmon consists of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate
independently within eleven diverse business sectors. These sectors are  Building Wire , providing copper electrical building wire for residential, commercial and industrial construction;  Construction Services , providing the leasing and
operation of mobile cranes primarily to the energy, mining and petrochemical markets;  Distribution Services , supplying specialty metal pipe and tubing, bar and sheet products to markets including construction, industrial, aerospace and many
others;  Engineered Wire   Cable , providing electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries;  Flow Products , producing copper, aluminum and brass products and materials for the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning, refrigeration, construction, automotive and industrial markets;  Food Service Equipment,  supplying commercial food preparation equipment for restaurants and shopping carts for retail stores;  Highway
Technologies , primarily serving the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, fifth wheel coupling devices and undercarriage products such as brake parts and suspension systems, and also serving the light vehicle and heavy-duty
aftermarkets with clutches and related products;  Industrial Products , consisting of metal fasteners for the building, furniture, cabinetry, industrial and other markets, safety products such as gloves for industrial markets, portable lighting
equipment for mining and safety markets, and overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems, and custom-machined brass, aluminum and copper forgings for the construction, valve and other industries;  Retail Store Fixtures ,
providing shelving and other merchandising displays and related services for retail stores worldwide;  Transportation Services   Engineered Products , including manufacturing, leasing and maintenance of railroad tank cars, leasing of
intermodal tank containers, in-plant rail services, manufacturing of bi-modal railcar movers, wheel, axle and gear sets for light rail transit and gear products for locomotives, manufacturing of steel tank heads, and services, equipment and
technology for processing and distributing sulfur; and  Water Treatment  equipment including residential water softening, purification and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation,
oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and air-cooled heat exchangers.      Marmon operates more than 250 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities that are primarily located in North America, Europe and China, and employs approximately 15,500 people worldwide.       McLane Company  McLane Company, Inc. ( McLane ) provides wholesale distribution and logistics services in all 50 states
and internationally in Brazil to customers that include discount retailers, convenience stores, quick service restaurants, drug stores and movie theatre complexes. Prior to Berkshire s acquisition in 2003, McLane was an integral part of the
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Wal-Mart ) distribution network. McLane continues to provide wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart, which accounts for approximately one-third of McLane s revenues. McLane s business model is based
on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control. Operations are divided into two business units: grocery distribution and foodservice distribution.      McLane s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, enjoys the dominant market share within the convenience store industry and
serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 36,000 retail locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane s grocery distribution unit operates 22
facilities in 18 states.      McLane s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the
quick service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states. The foodservice distribution unit services more than 18,000 chain restaurants nationwide.       Shaw Industries  Shaw Industries Group, Inc. ( Shaw ), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world s largest
carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted and woven carpet, rugs, laminate and wood flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names
and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides installation services and sells ceramic tile. Shaw s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet.
Shaw s carpet, rugs and hard surface products are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures. Shaw acquired Sportexe in 2009 which will provide an entry into the sports turf market.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

   Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 40,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users
throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,000 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and
distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw s 12 carpet full-service distribution facilities, three hard surface and four rug full-service distribution facilities and 30 redistribution centers, along with centralized management
information systems, enable it to provide prompt efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.      Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming
loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2009 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials
continues to be good although costs have been adversely impacted by the high petro-chemical and natural gas prices. The raw material increases are periodically passed along to customers.      The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United
States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 63% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The principal
competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.       Other Manufacturing,
Service and Retailing Businesses        Apparel Manufacturing  Berkshire s apparel manufacturing businesses
include manufacturers of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing products include Fruit of the Loom ( FOL ), Russell Corporation ( Russell ), Vanity Fair Brands
( VFB ), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire s footwear businesses include H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands.      Berkshire acquired FOL in 2002, Russell in August 2006 and VFB in April 2007. As a combined business, headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, FOL, Russell and VFB ( FOL Inc. ) is primarily a
vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear and athletic apparel and products. FOL Inc. maintains the number one market share brand of men s and boy s underwear in the mass merchandise channel. Following
the acquisitions of Russell and VFB, and in response to the economic downturn, substantial restructuring actions have been completed to take advantage of cross-company synergies and reduce FOL, Inc. s global cost structure. Total employee count
has been reduced from about 46,000 at April 2007 to about 31,000 at the end of 2009, a 33% reduction in workforce. Products, under the  Fruit of the Loom       and  JERZEES      
labels, are primarily sold in the mass merchandise and wholesale markets. With the addition of VFB, FOL Inc. has expanded its women s intimate apparel line that is sold under the  Vanity Fair     , Vassarette     ,
Bestform     , Lily of France     ,  and  Curvation      
brands. FOL Inc. also markets and sells athletic uniforms, apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; college licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores and mid-tier merchants; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls
to sporting goods retailers under the  Russell Athletic       and  Spalding       brands. FOL Inc. markets and sells running footwear and apparel to specialty retailers under the
 Brooks       brand. Other brands include  American Athletic     , BVD     , Cross
Creek     , Mossy Oak     , Moving Comfort     , Bike     , Dudley     , Discus     , Sherrin     , Gemma     , Lou     , Intima     ,  and  Variance     .  In 2009, approximately one-third of FOL Inc. s sales were to Wal-Mart.      FOL Inc. generally performs its own spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the North American market which comprised more than 80% of FOL Inc. s net sales in 2009,
the majority of its capital-intensive spinning operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with cloth manufacturing performed both in the U.S. and offshore. Labor-intensive sewing and finishing operations are located
in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the Caribbean. For the European market, products are either outsourced to third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. A new textile
facility in Morocco started production in 2008. FOL Inc. s bras, athletic equipment, footwear, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.      Cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL Inc. s products and are purchased from a
limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Management believes there are
currently readily available alternative sources of supply. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a
corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. FOL Inc. s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style, quality and
customer service.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   Garan designs, manufactures and sells apparel primarily for children.
Products are sold under its own trademark  Garanimals       and private labels of its customers. Garan s
production facilities are primarily located in Central America. Substantially all of Garan s products are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S. to major national chain stores, department stores and specialty stores. In 2009, over
90% of Garan s sales were to Wal-Mart. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in
Cincinnati, Ohio.      Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor
and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including  Justin, Tony Lama      ,
 Nocona      ,  Chippewas      ,  Born      ,
 Sofft      ,  Carolina      ,  Double HH Boots      ,
 Corcoran       and  Metterhorn      . A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are
principally sold in the United States through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.       Building Products Manufacturing  Acme Building Brands ( Acme ) headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas,
manufactures and distributes clay bricks ( Acme Brick      ), concrete block ( Featherlite ) and cut
limestone ( Texas Quarries ). In addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including glass block, floor and wall tile and other masonry products. Acme also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well
as marble, granite and other stones through its subsidiary, American Tile. Products are sold primarily in the Southwest United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general
contractors.      Acme operates 24 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in seven states, seven concrete block facilities in
Texas and two stone quarry fabrication facilities located in Texas and Minnesota. In addition, Acme operates a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility all located in Texas. The demand for
Acme s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months and is subject to the level of construction activity which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in
many of its manufactured products. Acme s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.      Benjamin Moore   Co. ( Benjamin Moore ), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available
principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products
are marketed under various registered brand names, including  Regal      ,  Superspec      ,  Moorcraft Superhide      ,  Moorgard      ,
 Aura      ,  Nattura      ,  Coronado Paint      ,
 Insl-x       and  Lenmar      .      Benjamin Moore relies
primarily on an independent dealer network for the distribution of its products. The network consists of over 4,400 retailers with over 5,900 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore also owns and manages several multiple-outlet
stores and stand-alone stores in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily contractors and general consumers. Included in the 5,900 storefronts at December 31, 2009 were 104 Benjamin Moore majority-owned stores. The
independent retailer channel offers a broad array of products including  Benjamin Moore       and 
Insl-x       brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings, window treatments and sundries. Benjamin Moore
also has three color stations located in regional malls that serve as brand marketing tools.      Johns Manville ( JM )
is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM
serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe and equipment filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiber glass is the basic material in a majority of
JM s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its
businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 41 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at several other
facilities.      JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers,
manufacturers and fabricators. JM holds leadership positions in all of the key markets that it serves and typically competes with a few large global and national competitors and several smaller, regional competitors. JM s products compete
primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. JM is seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being determined based on the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products,
services and operations.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading
provider of engineered connector products, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who manufacture
pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market as well as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the light gauge steel framing market under the
 Ultra-Span       name, manufactures assembly line machinery used by the lead acid battery industry,
manufactures and markets a line of masonry connector products and manufactures and markets air handling systems used in commercial building. MiTek operates on five continents with sales into approximately 80 countries. MiTek has 28 manufacturing
facilities located in ten countries and 60 sales/engineering offices located in 15 countries.      Demand for products of
Berkshire s building products businesses is affected to varying degrees by commercial construction and industrial activity in the U.S. and Europe and the level of U.S. housing construction. For several years, U.S. housing construction was
strong, resulting in strong demand for building products and high manufacturing capacity utilization. Since the second half of 2006, housing construction activity has declined resulting in lower demand for certain building products and decreased
manufacturing capacity utilization. Construction activity was depressed in 2008 and 2009. There have also been declines in European commercial construction and industrial activity.      The building products businesses are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances.       Other Manufacturing Businesses       Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in ISCAR Metalworking
Companies ( IMC ) in 2006. IMC, based in Tefen, Israel, is one of the world s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets
under the brand names  ISCAR      ,  TaeguTec      ,  Ingersoll      ,
 Tungaloy      ,  Unitac      ,  UOP It.te.di       and
 Outiltec      . IMC s manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, United States, Germany, Italy,
France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.      IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping
tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings.
Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufactures to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize
productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers.      IMC s global sales and marketing network has
representatives in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses
in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC
offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.      IMC competes in the metal cutting tools
segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufactures of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinationals with a wide
assortment of products and extensive distribution networks.      In 2005, Berkshire acquired Forest River, Inc. ( Forest
River ), a manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility, cargo and office trailers, busses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products are sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network.
Forest River has manufacturing facilities in six states. In December 2008, Forest River acquired the recreational vehicle assets of Coachmen Industries, Inc.      The Scott Fetzer companies are a diversified group of 20 businesses that manufacture and distribute a wide variety of
products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell Hausfeld products. Albecca Inc. ( Albecca ), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, does
business primarily under the  Larson-Juhl       name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete
line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 15 countries outside of North America. CTB International Corp.,
headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of systems used in the grain industry and in the production of poultry, hogs and eggs.       
  
   15   

Table of Contents  

    Service Businesses       FlightSafety International Inc. ( FSI ), headquartered at LaGuardia Airport in Flushing, New York, is engaged primarily in the
business of providing high technology training to operators of aircraft. FSI s training activities include: advanced pilot training in the operation of aircraft and air traffic control procedures; aircrew training for military and other
government personnel; aircraft maintenance technician training; and ab-initio (primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for private and commercial pilots  licenses. FSI also develops classroom instructional systems and materials for use
in its training business and for sale to others.      A significant part of FSI s training programs derives from the use of
simulators, which incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the operation of specific aircraft. Simulators reproduce, with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights, movements and aircraft control responses experienced by the operator of
the aircraft. FSI utilizes 491 training devices, including 297 civil aviation simulators. FSI s training businesses are conducted primarily in the United States, with facilities located in 18 states. FSI also operates training facilities in
Canada, France, Japan and the United Kingdom. FSI also designs and manufactures full motion flight simulators, visual displays and other training equipment for use in its training business and for sale to others. Manufacturing facilities are located
in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas.      NetJets Inc. ( NJ ) is the world s leading provider of fractional ownership
programs for general aviation aircraft. NJ s executive offices and U.S. operations are located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NJ s European operations are
based in Lisbon, Portugal. The fractional aircraft ownership concept permits customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows them to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition,
NJ provides management, ground support and flight operation services. NJ is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, which address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport
operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues. NJ also maintains an  exclusive alliance  with an independent company, Marquis Jet Partners, Inc. ( Marquis ). Under this alliance, Marquis leases
and purchases fractional interests and management services from NJ and resells them to its customers in the form of a prepaid Marquis Jet Card, which entitles the customer to 25 hours of flight time. This element of NJ s business currently
approximates 12% of NJ revenues.      The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot
justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or looking for additional capacity for
peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, lower and predictable operating costs and
increased liquidity.      In March 2007, Berkshire acquired TTI, Inc. ( TTI ), an electronic component distributor
headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. TTI is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect and discrete components, which are readily adaptable to a wide variety of end-users over a broad range of industries. TTI s customer base
includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, contract manufacturers, military, industrial users and commercial customers. TTI s business model is organized between its core business of supporting high volume
production business and its catalog division which supports lower volume purchases with a broader customer base and higher margins. TTI operates distribution centers in North America, Europe and Asia. TTI operates from more than 80 locations
throughout North America, Europe and Asia.      Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text
news releases daily to the media, the Internet, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and 45 languages. Roughly 90% of the company s revenue comes from the core business of news distribution. The
Pampered Chef, LTD ( TPC ) is the premier direct seller of high quality kitchen tools in the United States. Products are researched, designed and tested by TPC and manufactured by third-party suppliers. The Buffalo News publishes three
editions on Saturday and Sunday and five editions each weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York. International Dairy Queen services a system of about 5,800 stores operating under the names  Dairy Queen       , Orange Julius       and  Karmelkorn       that
offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods.       Retailing
Businesses  Berkshire s retailing businesses principally consist of several independently managed home furnishings and jewelry operations. Information regarding each of these operations follows.      The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart ( NFM ), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings ( R.C. Willey ),
Star Furniture Company ( Star ) and Jordan s Furniture, Inc. ( Jordan s ). NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey
sell a full line of major
        
   16   

Table of Contents  

household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan s also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important
feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume from offering significant value to their customers.      NFM operates its business from two very large retail complexes with almost one million square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska and Kansas City,
Kansas. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of its markets. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa, which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space.      R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States.
R.C. Willey operates 11 retail stores, two retail clearance facilities and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.5 million square feet of retail space with eight stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho, three
stores in Nevada and one store in California. In 2006, R.C. Willey opened a store in Rocklin, California to serve the Sacramento, California market and a distribution center in Roseville, California to serve the northern California and Reno, Nevada
markets.      Star s retail facilities include about 750,000 square feet of retail space in 12 locations. Star s retail
facilities are located in Texas with nine in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets. Jordan s operates a furniture retail business from four locations with approximately 520,000 square feet of retail space in
Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan s is believed to be the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and
advertising campaigns.      Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. ( Borsheims ) operates from a single
store located in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc. ( Helzberg ), based in North Kansas City,
Missouri, operates a chain of about 234 retail jewelry stores in 37 states. Most of Helzberg s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers or power strip centers, and all stores operate under the name  Helzberg Diamonds      . The Ben Bridge Corporation ( Ben Bridge Jeweler ), based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 75
upscale retail jewelry stores in 12 states, primarily in the Western United States. Principal products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire s retail jewelry
operations are subject to seasonality with approximately 40% of annual revenues being earned in the fourth quarter.      Also
included in Berkshire s group of retailing businesses is See s Candies ( See s ), which produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los
Angeles and San Francisco, California. See s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately 50% of total annual revenues being earned in the months of November and December.       Finance and Financial Products       Clayton Homes, Inc. ( Clayton ),
headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At December 31, 2009, Clayton operated 36 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of
1,503 retailers, including 385 company-owned home centers. Financing is offered to purchasers of Clayton s manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers, through its finance subsidiaries. Clayton is
also currently developing 24 housing subdivisions in eight states.      Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail and finance
levels on the basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are
facilitated by Clayton s offering of various finance and insurance programs. Finance programs include home note and mortgage originations supporting company-owned home centers and select independent retailers. Proprietary loan underwriting
guidelines have been developed and include gross income, debt to income limits and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants. Approximately 50% of the originations are home-only loans and the remaining 50% have
land as additional collateral. The average down payment is about 18%, which may be from cash or land equity. Each loan with land will have an independent appraisal in order to establish the value of the land. Originations are all fixed rate and
fixed term, with an average term of about 280 months. Loans outstanding also include bulk purchases of contracts and mortgages from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers and services
housing contracts and mortgages that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase
and hold housing contracts and mortgages. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies and other programs.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

   XTRA Corporation ( XTRA ), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading
transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 97,000 units located at 71 facilities throughout the United States and four facilities in Canada. The fleet includes
over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the two largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease
equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation equipment, XTRA s utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units
available) and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a
broad selection of equipment and quick response times.      BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments pursuant to
proprietary strategies with the objective of earning above average investment returns. BH Finance also enters into derivative contracts and assumes foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses
may occur due to the nature of these activities as well as the markets in general. This business is conducted from Berkshire s corporate headquarters. CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental relocation
services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the  rent-to-rent  segment of the furniture rental industry.      Berkshire employed approximately 222,000 persons at December 31, 2009, which excludes the 35,000 employees of BNSF which was acquired on February 12, 2010.       Additional information with respect to Berkshire s businesses       The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 22 to Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements
contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Registrant s investments in fixed maturity and equity securities and other investments is included in Notes 4, 5 and 6 to Registrant s
Consolidated Financial Statements.      Berkshire maintains a website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ) where its annual
reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries  websites can be found. Berkshire s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form
8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC s website ( http://www.sec.gov ) and indirectly through
Berkshire s website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The
public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).       
  
   18   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Berkshire
and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as  we,   us,   our  or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.       Our tolerance for risk in our insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.       We have been and will continue to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. We could incur a significant loss from a single event and do so willingly if properly paid
for the risk assumed. We have also written some coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. In all cases, however, we attempt to avoid writing groups of policies from which losses might seriously aggregate. However, it is possible that
despite our efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. The tolerance for huge losses may result in such losses in future periods, which may result in lower reported earnings.       The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant underwriting
losses.       In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The
principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although we believe that loss reserve balances are adequate to
cover losses, we will not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, our objective is to generate underwriting profits over the
long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Reserve estimates are large ($59.4 billion at December 31, 2009) so increases to reserve estimates can result in materially lower periodic reported earnings.       Insurance subsidiaries  investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.       Compared to other insurers, our insurance subsidiaries invest an unusually high percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify
their portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease in our consolidated shareholders  equity and under certain circumstances may
require the recognition of losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated book value per share.       Derivative contracts may require significant future cash settlement payments and result in significant losses.       We have assumed the risk of potentially significant losses under our credit default and equity index put option contracts. Although we received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these
risks, there is no assurance that the premiums we received will exceed our aggregate cash settlement payments. While the risks under the credit default contracts are limited to specified entities, amounts per entity and aggregate contract limits,
the deterioration of the U.S. economy increased the number and amount of credit defaults and our payments to counterparties under many of our contracts during 2009. Although the frequency of losses and the fair value of our remaining exposures
decreased over the last half of 2009, the risks of additional payments and losses in our earnings from credit defaults continues into the future. Our risks of losses under equity index put option contracts are based on declines in equity prices of
stocks comprising certain major stock indexes worldwide. Although these contracts do not expire prior to 2018, we could be subject to significant future settlement payments at expiration if equity index prices are below the strike prices specified
in the contracts.      The credit default and equity index put option contracts are recorded at fair value in our Consolidated
Balance Sheet and the periodic changes in fair value are reported in earnings. The valuations of these contracts and the impact on our earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the volatility of credit and equity markets and material
losses may be reported in future periodic earnings.       We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital allocation
decisions.       Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman
of the Board of Directors and CEO, age 79, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 86. If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable, there
could be a
        
   19   

Table of Contents  

material adverse effect on our operations. However, Berkshire s Board of Directors has identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO. Berkshire s
Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its current view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that
the Board s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running our numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.       The past growth rate in Berkshire s book value per share is not an indication of future results.       In the years since our present management acquired control of Berkshire, our book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of our capital base (shareholders 
equity of approximately $131.1 billion as of December 31, 2009), our book value per share will very likely  not  increase in the future at a rate even close to its past rate.       Competition       Each of our operating businesses face intense competitive
pressures within markets in which we operate. Competition may arise domestically as well as internationally. While we manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive
advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in
protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results in the future may decline from current levels.       Unfavorable economic and political conditions could hurt our operating businesses.       Our operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which we operate. To the
extent that the current economic recession in the U.S. and worldwide continues for a prolonged period of time, one or more of our significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our utilities and energy businesses, our railroad
business and our manufactured housing finance operations regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures. These businesses depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets. To the extent that access to the
credit is restricted or the cost of funding increases, our operations could be adversely affected.      Historically, we derived a
relatively small amount of our revenues and earnings from international markets. Our international business was conducted primarily in regions where relatively stable political and economic conditions have prevailed. As a result of our business
acquisitions in recent years, including IMC, we are subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest at certain of our internationally based businesses. Further, terrorism activities deriving from unstable conditions
could produce significant insurance and other operating losses to our worldwide operations, including operations based in the United States. Our business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources and
destruction of production facilities.       Risks unique to our regulated businesses        Insurance Businesses       Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulations may relate to among other things, the types of business we can write, the rates we can charge for coverage, the level of capital
that we must maintain, and restrictions on the types and size of investments we can make. Regulations may also restrict the timing and amount of dividend payments. Accordingly, changes in regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory
actions imposing restrictions on our insurance companies, may adversely impact our results of operations.       Utilities and
Energy Businesses       For the most part, our utilities and energy businesses, which generate, transmit and distribute
electricity and transport and distribute natural gas, are highly regulated by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which they operate. Regulations affect
almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses and limit our ability to independently make and implement management decisions regarding, among other items, business combinations, constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets,
setting rates charged to customers, establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities, engaging in transactions between our domestic utilities and
        
   20   

Table of Contents  

other subsidiaries and affiliates, and paying dividends. Adverse new legislation or regulations or reinterpretations of existing regulations, such as those relating to climate change and the
regulation of greenhouse gases, as well as the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant adverse impact on our financial results.      Our utilities and energy business requires significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain sufficient generation, transmission and distribution systems. Usually, large amounts of
borrowed funds are required to capitalize these businesses and additional borrowed funds may not be available at economically favorable terms. Additionally, such systems may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify
the financial investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers.       Railroad Business       Our railroad business is subject to a significant amount
of governmental laws and regulations with respect to rates and practices, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material
adverse effect on BNSF s business. Governments may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on the business. Increased economic
regulation of the rail industry could negatively impact BNSF s ability to determine prices for rail services and to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition
or liquidity.       Our Class B common stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than our Class A common stock.  
     Each share of Class A common stock is currently convertible into 1,500 shares of Class B common stock, but shares of
Class B common stock are not convertible into shares of Class A common stock or any other security. Although a share of Class B common stock may sell below one-fifteen-hundredth of the market price for a share of Class A common stock, it
is unlikely that a share of Class B common stock will sell significantly above 1/1,500 of the market price for a share of Class A common stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of
Class A common stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of Class B common stock are currently entitled to only 1/10,000 of a vote for each Class B share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders.       Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.       Over the past year, partially in response to the financial markets crises and the global economic recession, regulatory initiatives have accelerated in the United States and abroad. Such initiatives
address for example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, regulations related to environmental and global-warming matters and health care reform. It is not yet clear whether or not these initiatives will result in
significant changes to existing laws and regulations. These initiatives could have a significant impact on our operating businesses as well as on the businesses that we have a significant but not controlling economic interest. Accordingly we cannot
predict whether such initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.       

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         None.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

Item 2.   
   Description of Properties         The physical properties used by our significant business segments are summarized below:       
       
   22   

Table of Contents  

23   

Table of Contents  

    Utilities and Energy Businesses       MidAmerican s energy properties consist of the physical assets necessary to support its electricity and natural gas businesses.
Properties of MidAmerican s electricity businesses include electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, as well as coal mining assets that provide fuel for certain of MidAmerican s electric generating facilities.
Properties of MidAmerican s natural gas businesses include natural gas distribution facilities, interstate pipelines, storage facilities, compressor stations and meter stations. In addition to these physical assets, MidAmerican has
rights-of-way, mineral rights and water rights that enable MidAmerican to utilize its facilities. A majority of these properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for the related subsidiary debt. MidAmerican or
its affiliates own or have interests in the following types of electric generation facilities at December 31, 2009:       

(1)       
      Facility Net Capacity (MW) represents (except for wind-powered generation facilities, which are
nameplate ratings) either: 1) PacifiCorp the total capability of a generating unit as demonstrated by actual operating or test experience, less power generated and used for auxiliaries and other station uses, and is determined using average
annual temperatures; 2) MEC the total plant accredited net generating capacity from the summer of 2009 where MW may vary depending on operating conditions and plant design; or 3) CalEnergy the contract capacity for most facilities.

(2)       
      Net MW Owned indicates MidAmerican s ownership of Facility Net Capacity (MW).   
        PacifiCorp and MEC own electric transmission and distribution systems, including approximately 18,000 miles
of transmission lines and approximately 1,300 substations, gas distribution facilities, including approximately 22,000 miles of gas mains and service pipelines, and an estimated 209 million tons of recoverable coal reserves in mines owned or
leased in Wyoming, Utah and Colorado.      Northern Natural s system consists of approximately 15,000 miles of natural gas
pipelines, including approximately 6,400 miles of mainline transmission pipelines and approximately 8,600 miles of branch and lateral pipelines. Northern Natural s end-use and distribution market area includes points in Iowa, Nebraska,
Minnesota, Wisconsin, South Dakota, Michigan and Illinois and its natural gas supply and delivery service area includes points in Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. Storage services are provided through the operation of one underground natural
gas storage field in Iowa, two underground natural gas storage facilities in Kansas and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units, one in Iowa and one in Minnesota.      Kern River s system consists of approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipelines, including approximately 1,400 miles of mainline section and approximately 300 miles of common facilities. Kern
River owns the entire mainline section, which extends from the system s point of origination in Wyoming through the Central Rocky Mountains area into California.      Northern Electric s and Yorkshire Electricity s electricity distribution network includes approximately 18,000 miles of overhead lines, approximately 40,000 miles of underground cables and
approximately 700 major substations.       Railroad Business       On February 12, 2010, a Berkshire subsidiary acquired all of the outstanding shares of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation
( BNSF ) common stock that it did not already own. BNSF operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America with approximately 32,000 route miles of track, excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, approximately
        
   24   

Table of Contents  

23,000 miles of which are owned route miles, including easements, in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. Approximately 9,000 route miles of BNSF s system consist of trackage rights that
permit BNSF to operate its trains with its crews over other railroads  tracks.      As of December 31, 2009, the total
BNSF system, including single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consisted of approximately 50,000 operated miles of track, all of which are owned by or held under easement by BNSF except for approximately 10,000 route miles operated
under trackage rights. At December 31, 2009, approximately 26,000 miles of BNSF Railway s track consisted of 112-pound per yard or heavier rail, including approximately 20,000 track miles of 131-pound per yard or heavier rail.   
  BNSF owned or had under non-cancelable leases exceeding one year the following units of railroad rolling stock and other equipment as of
December 31, 2009 follows:       

*  
  These averages are not weighted to reflect the greater capacities of the newer equipment.        BNSF operates various facilities and equipment to support its transportation system. It also owns or leases other equipment to support rail
operations, including containers, chassis and vehicles. Support facilities for rail operations include yards and terminals throughout its rail network, system locomotive shops to perform locomotive servicing and maintenance, a centralized network
operations center for train dispatching and network operations monitoring and management in Fort Worth, Texas, regional dispatching centers, computers, telecommunications equipment, signal systems and other support systems. Transfer facilities are
maintained for rail-to-rail as well as intermodal transfer of containers, trailers and other freight traffic. These facilities include 31 major intermodal hubs located across the system. BNSF s largest intermodal facilities in terms of 2009
volume were as follows:       
       
   25   

Table of Contents  

   BNSF owns 22 automotive distribution facilities and serves eight port facilities where
automobiles are loaded on or unloaded from multi-level rail cars in the United States and Canada. BNSF s largest freight car classification yards based on the average daily number of cars processed (excluding cars that do not change trains at
the terminal, intermodal and coal cars) are shown below:       

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally
seeks to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not believe that such normal
and routine litigation will have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to
impose fines and penalties in substantial amounts.        a)  Governmental Investigations       On January 19, 2010, General Re Corporation ( General Re ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
( Berkshire ), entered into settlements with the U.S. Department of Justice (the  DOJ ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) related to the investigations of non-traditional products previously
disclosed by Berkshire. Berkshire, General Re and certain of Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries had been fully cooperating in these investigations since General Re originally received subpoenas in January 2005.      As part of the settlements, General Re entered into a non-prosecution agreement (the  Non-Prosecution Agreement ) with the DOJ.
Under the terms of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, among other things, the DOJ has agreed not to prosecute General Re for any crimes committed by General Re relating to General Re s previously disclosed transaction with American International
Group, Inc. ( AIG ) initially effected in 2000 (the  AIG Transaction ), and General Re has paid a monetary amount equal to $19.5 million to the United States. The Non-Prosecution Agreement provides that General Re s
agreement to pay $60.5 million, exclusive of attorneys  fees and expenses, through the pending civil class action settlement with AIG shareholders more fully described below, when combined with the amounts to be paid by AIG and the other
defendants, satisfies restitution with regard to the AIG Transaction. General Re also has agreed to continue to cooperate fully with the DOJ and the SEC in any ongoing investigations of individuals who may have been involved with the AIG
Transaction. The Non-Prosecution Agreement acknowledges that General Re has instituted a number of internal corporate remediation measures applicable to itself and its subsidiaries and, under the terms of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, General Re
has agreed to maintain such remediation measures at least during the three-year term thereof. General Re has also agreed to toll the statute of limitations for the term of the Non-Prosecution Agreement on crimes related to the AIG Transaction, and
that neither it nor its directors, executive officers or representatives will make, cause others to make or acknowledge as true any statements inconsistent with the agreed statement of facts in the Non-Prosecution Agreement. The Non-Prosecution
Agreement provides that if the DOJ determines that General Re or any of its employees, officers or directors have failed to comply with or knowingly violated any of the provisions of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, have provided deliberately false,
incomplete or misleading information thereunder, or have violated any provision of the federal securities laws during the term of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, General Re shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for crimes committed by and
through its employees related to the AIG Transaction. The Non-Prosecution Agreement is also applicable to, and binding upon, certain subsidiaries of General Re.      In connection with the SEC settlement, which concerns the AIG transaction, as well as a separate series of interrelated transactions with Prudential Financial, Inc. during the period 1997 through 2002,
General Re is permanently enjoined from aiding and abetting any violations of the books and records and internal controls provisions of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended, and has paid $12.2 million in
disgorgement and prejudgment interest (the  SEC Amount ) to the SEC. General Re has also agreed not to take any action or make or permit any public statement denying
        
   26   

Table of Contents  

any allegations in the SEC s complaint or creating the impression that the complaint is without factual basis, although this obligation does not affect General Re s testimonial
obligations or right to take legal or factual positions in litigation or other legal proceedings in which the SEC is not a party. If General Re breaches this agreement, the SEC may petition to vacate the General Re judgment and restore its action
against General Re. On February 8, 2010, the judge in this matter issued an order permitting Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, which acquired Prudential Financial and claims to be entitled to the SEC Amount as a result of its own alleged
damages, to file a motion to intervene in this matter and requiring the SEC to hold the SEC Amount separate pending a resolution. If the SEC is required to turn over the SEC Amount, or a portion thereof, to Liberty Mutual, General Re could be
subject to additional claims for relief from the SEC.      The Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland is
conducting a preliminary evaluation in relation to Cologne Reinsurance Company (Dublin) Limited ( CRD ), a wholly owned subsidiary of General Re, concerning, in particular, transactions between CRD and AIG. CRD is cooperating fully with
this preliminary evaluation.      Except for the ongoing investigation by the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in
Ireland, we are not aware of any remaining governmental investigations of any of our subsidiaries involving non-traditional products or related transactions.        b)  Civil Litigation          Litigation Related to ROA
      General Reinsurance Corporation ( General Reinsurance ), a subsidiary of General Re, and several current and
former employees, along with numerous other defendants, have been sued in thirteen federal lawsuits involving Reciprocal of America ( ROA ) and related entities. ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal insurer and reinsurer of physician,
hospital and lawyer professional liability risks. Nine are putative class actions initiated by doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased insurance through ROA or certain of its Tennessee-based risk retention groups. These complaints seek
compensatory, treble, and punitive damages in an amount plaintiffs contend is just and reasonable.      General Reinsurance is
also subject to actions brought by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, the Tennessee Commissioner of Insurance, as Receiver for purposes of liquidating three Tennessee risk retention groups, a state lawsuit filed by a
Missouri-based hospital group that was removed to federal court and another state lawsuit filed by an Alabama doctor that was also removed to federal court. The first of these actions was filed in March 2003 and additional actions were filed in
April 2003 through June 2006. In the action filed by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner asserts in several of its claims that the alleged damages are believed to exceed $200 million in the aggregate as against all defendants.
     All of these cases are collectively assigned to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee for pretrial
proceedings. General Reinsurance filed motions to dismiss all of the claims against it in these cases and, in June 2006, the court granted General Reinsurance s motion to dismiss the complaints of the Virginia and Tennessee receivers. The court
granted the Tennessee receiver leave to amend her complaint, and the Tennessee receiver filed an amended complaint on August 7, 2006. General Reinsurance has filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint in its entirety and that motion was
granted, with the court dismissing the claim based on an alleged violation of RICO with prejudice and dismissing the state law claims without prejudice. One of the other defendants filed a motion for the court to reconsider the dismissal of the
state law claims, requesting that the court retain jurisdiction over them. That motion is pending.      The Tennessee Receiver
subsequently filed three Tennessee state court actions against General Reinsurance, essentially asserting the same state law claims that had been dismissed without prejudice by the Federal court. General Reinsurance removed those actions to Federal
court, and the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation ultimately transferred these actions to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.      The Virginia receiver has moved for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to amend his complaint, which was opposed by General Reinsurance. The court affirmed its original ruling but has given
the Virginia receiver leave to amend. In September 2006, the court also dismissed the complaint filed by the Missouri-based hospital group. The Missouri-based hospital group has filed a motion for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to
file an amended complaint. General Reinsurance has filed its opposition to that motion and awaits a ruling by the court. The court has also not yet ruled on General Reinsurance s motions to dismiss the complaints of the other plaintiffs.
        
   27   

Table of Contents  

   General Reinsurance filed a Complaint and a motion in federal court to compel the Tennessee
and Virginia receivers to arbitrate their claims against General Reinsurance. The receivers filed motions to dismiss the Complaint. These motions are pending.      General Reinsurance has reached tentative settlements with the Virginia and Tennessee receivers as well as the Missouri-based hospital group. If those settlements are consummated and approved, all the
claims by these entities will be dismissed.       Actions related to AIG       General Reinsurance is a defendant in In re American International Group Securities Litigation, Case No. 04-CV-8141-(LTS), United States
District Court, Southern District of New York, a putative class action (the  AIG Securities Litigation ) asserted on behalf of investors who purchased publicly-traded securities of AIG between October 1999 and March 2005. The complaint,
originally filed in April 2005, asserts various claims against AIG and certain of its officers, directors, investment banks and other parties, including Ronald Ferguson, Richard Napier and John Houldsworth (whom the Complaint defines, together with
General Reinsurance, as the  General Re Defendants ). The Complaint alleges that the General Re Defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 in connection with the AIG Transaction. The Complaint
seeks damages and other relief in unspecified amounts. General Reinsurance has answered the Complaint, denying liability and asserting various affirmative defenses. Lead plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on February 20, 2008.
Various defendants, including General Reinsurance, have filed oppositions to class certification. On May 29, 2008, General Reinsurance filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to that motion on June 30, 2008. The
court has not ruled on that motion. The lead plaintiffs and General Reinsurance have reached agreement concerning the terms of a settlement that would resolve all claims against the General Re Defendants in exchange for a payment by General
Reinsurance of $72 million, out of which the court may award plaintiffs  counsel no more than $11.5 million in fees and reimbursement of costs, with the remaining amount of at least $60.5 million to be distributed to purchasers of AIG
securities. This settlement remains subject to court approval. On February 22, 2010, the court granted class certification with respect to claims against AIG, and denied class certification with respect to claims against General Reinsurance. The
order does not explicitly address whether the court will approve the above-described settlement.      A member of the putative
class in the litigation described in the preceding paragraph has asserted similar claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson in a separate complaint, Florida State Board of Administration v. General Re Corporation, et al., Case
No. 06-CV-3967, United States District Court, Southern District of New York. The claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson closely resemble those asserted in the class action. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages sought.
General Re has answered the Complaint, denying liability and asserting various affirmative defenses. No trial date has been established. The parties are coordinating discovery and other proceedings among this action, a similar action filed by the
same plaintiff against AIG and others, the class action described in the preceding paragraph, and the shareholder derivative actions described in the next two paragraphs.      On July 27, 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Verified and Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation, Case
No. 04-CV-08406, United States District Court, Southern District of New York. The complaint, brought by several alleged shareholders of AIG, seeks damages, injunctive and declaratory relief against various officers and directors of AIG as well
as a variety of individuals and entities with whom AIG did business, relating to a wide variety of allegedly wrongful practices by AIG. The allegations relating to General Reinsurance focus on the AIG Transaction, and the complaint purports to
assert causes of action in connection with that transaction for aiding and abetting other defendants  breaches of fiduciary duty and for unjust enrichment. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages or the nature of any other relief
sought. This derivative litigation was stayed by stipulation between the plaintiffs and AIG. That stay remains in place.      In
August 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and First Amended Consolidated Shareholders  Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation, Case No. 769-N, Delaware Chancery Court.
In June 2007, AIG filed an Amended Complaint in the Delaware Derivative Litigation asserting claims against two of its former officers, but not against General Reinsurance. On September 28, 2007, AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs filed a
Second Combined Amended Complaint, in which AIG asserted claims against certain of its former officers and the shareholder plaintiffs asserted claims against a number of other defendants, including General Reinsurance and General Re. The claims
asserted in the Delaware complaint are substantially similar to those asserted in the New York derivative complaint, except that the Delaware complaint makes clear that the plaintiffs are asserting claims against both General Reinsurance and General
Re. General Reinsurance and General Re filed a motion to dismiss on November 30, 2007. On July 13, 2009, the Delaware Chancery Court entered judgment dismissing with prejudice the claims asserted against General Re, General Reinsurance and
certain other defendants in the matter. Plaintiffs have appealed the judgment. General Re and General Reinsurance are vigorously opposing that appeal.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

    FAI/HIH Matter       In December 2003, the Liquidators of both FAI Insurance Limited ( FAI ) and HIH Insurance Limited ( HIH ) advised General
Reinsurance Australia Limited ( GRA ) and K lnische R ckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG ( Cologne Re ) that they intended to assert claims arising from insurance transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June
1998. In August 2004, the Liquidators filed claims in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in order to avoid the expiration of a statute of limitations for certain plaintiffs. The focus of the Liquidators  allegations against GRA and Cologne Re
are the 1998 transactions GRA entered into with FAI (which was acquired by HIH in 1999). The Liquidators contend, among other things, that GRA and Cologne Re engaged in deceptive conduct that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such
transactions as reinsurance, and that such deception led to HIH s acquisition of FAI and caused various losses to FAI and HIH. The Liquidator of HIH served its Complaint on GRA and Cologne Re in June 2006 and discovery has been ongoing. The FAI
Liquidator dismissed his complaint against GRA and Cologne Re. GRA and Cologne Re have entered into a settlement in principle with the HIH Liquidator, which remains subject to court approval.       

Item 4.   
   Reserved          Executive Officers of the
Registrant       Following is a list of the Registrant s executive officers:       
    Each executive officer
serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the Registrant, until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his respective successor is chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies,
resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also serve as directors of the Registrant.       Part II        

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters          Market Information       Berkshire s Class A and Class B common stock
are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated:

Shareholders       Berkshire had
approximately 4,400 record holders of its Class A common stock and 23,500 record holders of its Class B common stock at February 18, 2010. Record owners included nominees holding at least 600,000 shares of Class A common stock and
790,000,000 shares of Class B common stock on behalf of beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.         
   29   

Table of Contents  

    Dividends       Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.       

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data          Selected
Financial Data for the Past Five Years        (dollars in millions except per share data)        

(1)       
      Insurance premiums earned in 2007 included $7.1 billion from a single reinsurance transaction
with Equitas.            

(2)       
      On February 9, 2006, Berkshire converted its non-voting preferred stock of MidAmerican
Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ) to common stock and upon conversion, owned approximately 83.4% of the voting common stock interests. Accordingly, the Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the consolidation of the accounts of
MidAmerican beginning in 2006. Berkshire s investment in MidAmerican was accounted for pursuant to the equity method in 2005.            

(3)       
      The amount of investment and derivative gains and losses for any given period has no predictive
value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical analytical value. Derivative gains/losses include significant amounts related to non-cash changes in the fair value of long-term contracts arising from short-term changes in
equity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates, among other factors. After-tax investment and derivative gains/losses were $486 million in 2009, $(4.65) billion in 2008, $3.58 billion in 2007, $1.71 billion in 2006 and $3.53 billion in
2005. Investment and derivative gains/losses in 2005 include a non-cash pre-tax gain of $5.0 billion ($3.25 billion after-tax) relating to the exchange of Gillette stock for Procter   Gamble stock.        

(4)       
      Net earnings attributable to Berkshire for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes a
pre-tax underwriting loss of $3.4 billion in connection with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma that struck the Gulf coast and Southeast regions of the United States. Such loss reduced net earnings attributable to Berkshire by approximately $2.2
billion.            

(5)       
      Represents net earnings per equivalent Class A common share. Net earnings per Class B common
share is equal to 1/1,500 of such amount.              
   30   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          Results of Operations       Net
earnings attributable to Berkshire for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and exclude earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. Amounts are in millions.
      
    Our operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no
centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by our corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Our
senior corporate management team does participate in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. The business
segment data (Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) should be read in conjunction with this discussion.      The
declines in global economic activity over the last half of 2008 continued through 2009. Our operating results in 2009 were significantly impacted by those declines. Earnings in 2009 of most of our diverse group of manufacturing, service and
retailing businesses declined compared to the prior year. The effects from the economic recession resulted in lower sales volume, revenues and profit margins as consumers have significantly curtailed spending, particularly for discretionary items.
Our two largest business segments, insurance and utilities, remain strong and operating results have not been negatively impacted in any significant way by the recession. In 2008 and the first part of 2009, equity and debt markets experienced major
declines in market prices on a worldwide basis, which negatively impacted the fair value of our investments and derivative contracts. While market prices recovered somewhat over the remainder of 2009, the potential for significant declines in our
investment values in the future remains.      We had after-tax net investment and derivative gains of $486 million in 2009, while
in 2008 we had losses of $4.6 billion. The gains and losses primarily derived from credit default contracts, dispositions of certain equity securities, other-than-temporary impairment charges with respect to certain equity securities and changes in
estimated fair values of long duration equity index put option contracts. Changes in the equity and credit markets from period to period have caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in our periodic earnings.      In response to the crises in the financial markets and the global recession, the U.S. government and governments around the world are taking
measures to stabilize financial institutions, regulate markets (including over-the-counter derivatives markets) and stimulate economic activity. While we believe that general economic conditions will improve over time, the ultimate impact of these
actions on us is not clear at this time. Our operating companies have taken and will continue to take cost reduction actions as necessary to manage through the current economic situation. We continue to believe that the economic franchises of our
operating businesses remain intact and that our operating results will ultimately improve, although we cannot predict the timing of an economic recovery that will be required for this to occur.        Insurance Underwriting        We engage in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks. In primary insurance activities, we assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are
directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, we assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring activities. Our insurance and reinsurance
businesses are: (1) GEICO, (2) General Re, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Through General Re, we also reinsure life and health risks.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              
   Our management views insurance businesses as possessing two distinct operations  
underwriting and investing. Underwriting decisions are the responsibility of the unit managers; investing, with limited exceptions, is the responsibility of Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett. Accordingly, we evaluate performance
of underwriting operations without any allocation of investment income.      Our periodic underwriting results can be affected
significantly by changes in estimates for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including amounts established for occurrences in prior years. See the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion for information concerning the loss
reserve estimation process. In addition, the timing and amount of catastrophe losses can produce significant volatility in our periodic underwriting results. In two out of the last three years, we benefited from relatively minor levels of
catastrophe losses. In 2008, our underwriting results included estimated losses of approximately $900 million from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In 2009 and 2008, our underwriting results also included significant unrealized foreign currency
transaction gains and losses arising from the valuation of certain non-U.S. Dollar denominated reinsurance liabilities into U.S. Dollars as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations.      A key marketing strategy followed by all of our insurance businesses is the maintenance of extraordinary capital strength. Statutory surplus
of our insurance businesses was approximately $64 billion at December 31, 2009. This superior capital strength creates opportunities, especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into insurance and reinsurance
contracts specially designed to meet the unique needs of insurance and reinsurance buyers.      A summary follows of underwriting
results from our insurance businesses for the past three years. Amounts are in millions.       
     GEICO       Through GEICO, we primarily write private passenger automobile insurance, offering coverages to insureds in all 50 states and the District of
Columbia. GEICO s policies are marketed mainly by direct response methods in which customers apply for coverage directly to the company via the Internet, over the telephone or through the mail. This is a significant element in our strategy to
be a low-cost auto insurer. In addition, we strive to provide excellent service to customers, with the goal of establishing long-term customer relationships. GEICO s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized below. Dollars
are in millions.       
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)        
    GEICO (Continued)             Premiums earned in 2009 increased $1,097 million (8.8%) over premiums earned in 2008, reflecting growth in
voluntary auto premiums earned as a result of an overall increase in policies-in-force of 7.8%. Policies-in-force grew more rapidly in the latter part of 2008 and the early part of 2009 and moderated over the remainder of 2009. As a result, premiums
earned in 2009 increased at a higher rate than policies-in-force, despite a slight decline in premiums per policy. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2009 increased 9.0% versus 2008. Voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31, 2009 were
684,000 greater than at December 31, 2008.      Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2009 increased $1,125 million
(12.1%) compared with 2008. The loss ratio was 77.0% in 2009 compared to 74.8% in 2008. The higher loss ratio in 2009 reflected overall increases in average claim frequencies and injury claim severities. Claims frequencies in 2009 for physical
damage coverages increased in the one to two percent range, while frequencies for injury coverages increased in the five to seven percent range compared with the very low frequency levels in 2008. Average injury severities in 2009 increased in the
three to five percent range while average physical damage severities decreased in the two to four percent range from 2008. Incurred losses from catastrophe events in 2009 were $83 million, relatively unchanged from 2008. Underwriting expenses in
2009 increased $239 million (10.7%) due primarily to higher policy issuance costs and increased salary and employee benefit expenses, which included increased interest on deferred compensation liabilities.      Premiums earned in 2008 increased 5.7% over 2007, reflecting an 8.2% increase in voluntary auto policies-in-force partially offset by lower
average premiums per policy. Average premiums per policy declined during 2007 but leveled off in 2008. Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2008 increased 9.5% over 2007. Incurred losses from catastrophe events for 2008 were $87 million
compared to $34 million for 2007. Overall, the increase in the loss ratio reflected higher average claim severities and lower average premiums per policy, partially offset by lower average claims frequencies. Claims frequencies in 2008 for physical
damage coverages decreased in the seven to nine percent range from 2007 and frequencies for injury coverages decreased in the four to six percent range. Physical damage severities in 2008 increased in the six to eight percent range and injury
severities increased in the five to eight percent range over 2007. Underwriting expenses in 2008 increased $61 million (2.8%) over 2007. Policy acquisition expenses increased 8.5% in 2008 to $1,508 million, primarily due to increased
advertising and policy issuance costs. The increase in policy acquisition expenses was partially offset by lower other underwriting expenses, including lower interest on deferred compensation liabilities.       General Re       General Re conducts a reinsurance business offering property and casualty and life and health coverages to clients worldwide. Property and casualty reinsurance is written in North America on a direct basis through General Reinsurance
Corporation and internationally through Cologne Re (based in Germany) and other wholly-owned affiliates. Property and casualty reinsurance is also written through brokers with respect to Faraday in London. Life and health reinsurance is written in
North America through General Re Life Corporation and internationally through Cologne Re. General Re strives to generate underwriting profits in essentially all of its product lines. Underwriting performance is not evaluated based upon market share
and underwriters are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. General Re s underwriting results are summarized for the past three years in the following table. Amounts are in millions.       
     Property/casualty       Premiums written in 2009 declined $292 million (8.6%) from 2008, which included $205 million with respect to a reinsurance-to-close
transaction that increased our economic interest in the run-off of Lloyd s Syndicate 435 s 2000 year of account from 39% to 100%. Under the reinsurance-to-close transaction, we also assumed a corresponding amount of net loss
        
   33   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)        
    General Re (Continued)        Property/casualty (Continued)             
reserves and as a result, there was no impact on net underwriting gains in 2008. There was no similar transaction in 2009. Excluding the reinsurance-to-close transaction and the effects of
foreign currency exchange rate changes, premiums written in 2009 increased $149 million (4.7%) compared to 2008, primarily due to increased volume in North American, European treaty and Lloyd s market property business.      Premiums earned in 2009 declined $231 million (6.7%) from 2008. Excluding the effects of the reinsurance-to-close transaction in 2008
and the effects of foreign currency exchange rate changes, premiums earned increased $107 million (3.3%) in 2009 as compared to 2008. The increase in premiums earned in 2009 was primarily due to increased volume in European treaty and
Lloyd s market property business. Increased price competition and capacity within the industry could lead to a decline in our premium volume in 2010.      Underwriting results in 2009 included underwriting gains of $478 million from property business and losses of $178 million from casualty/workers  compensation business. The property business produced
underwriting gains of $173 million for the 2009 accident year, and $305 million from loss reserve reductions related to pre-2009 loss events. The property gains in 2009 were net of $48 million of losses from catastrophes, which were primarily from
winter storm Klaus in Europe, the Victoria bushfires in Australia and an earthquake in Italy. The underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business were primarily the result of establishing higher loss reserves for 2009 accident
year occurrences to reflect higher loss trends as well as $118 million of workers  compensation loss reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, offset in part by reserve reductions related to prior years  casualty and
workers  compensation loss reserves.      Premiums written and earned in 2008 declined compared with 2007. Premiums in 2007
included $114 million from a reinsurance-to-close transaction which increased our economic interest in Lloyd s Syndicate 435 s 2001 year of account to 100%. Otherwise, the declines in written and earned premiums in 2008 versus 2007
reflected underwriting discipline as the volume of business accepted declined where pricing was considered inadequate.      Underwriting results in 2008 included $275 million in underwriting gains from property business partially offset by $112 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business. The property business produced
underwriting losses of $120 million for the 2008 accident year, offset by $395 million of gains from loss reserve reductions related to pre-2008 loss events. The 2008 accident year results included $174 million of catastrophe losses from Hurricanes
Gustav and Ike and $56 million of catastrophe losses from European storms. The underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business in 2008 included $117 million of workers  compensation loss reserve discount accretion and
deferred charge amortization, offset in part by reserve reductions related to prior years  other casualty lines. The casualty results were adversely impacted by legal costs incurred in connection with regulatory investigations of finite
reinsurance.      Underwriting results in 2007 included $519 million in underwriting gains from property business partially offset
by $44 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business. The property business produced underwriting gains of $90 million for the 2007 accident year and $429 million from loss reserve reductions related to pre-2007
loss events. The pre-tax underwriting losses from casualty business in 2007 included $120 million of loss reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, as well as legal costs associated with finite reinsurance investigations. These
charges were largely offset by underwriting gains in other casualty business.       Life/health       Life and health reinsurance premiums earned in 2009 increased 1.8% over 2008, which increased 4.8% over 2007. Excluding the effects of
foreign currency, premiums earned increased 4.7% over 2008, which increased 2.2% over 2007. The increase in premiums earned in 2009 was primarily due to international business. The increase in premiums earned in 2008 was primarily from North
American life business. Underwriting results for the global life/health operations produced underwriting gains of $177 million in 2009, $179 million in 2008 and $80 million in 2007. Life/health results were profitable in each of the past three years
driven by gains from the life business due primarily to favorable mortality.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group       Through the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ), we underwrite excess-of-loss reinsurance and quota-share coverages for
insurers and reinsurers worldwide. Our business in BHRG includes catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance and excess direct and facultative reinsurance for large or otherwise unusual discrete risks referred to as individual risk. Retroactive
reinsurance policies provide indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events. Other multi-line refers to other business written on both a quota-share and excess basis, participations in and contracts with
Lloyd s syndicates as well as property, aviation and workers  compensation programs. BHRG s underwriting results are summarized in the table below. Amounts are in millions.       
    Catastrophe and individual risk contracts may provide exceptionally large limits of indemnification, often
several hundred million dollars and occasionally in excess of $1 billion, and cover catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other property and liability risks (such as aviation and aerospace, commercial
multi-peril or terrorism). The timing and magnitude of losses produce extraordinary volatility in periodic underwriting results of BHRG s catastrophe and individual risk business. In early 2009, we constrained the volume of business written in
response to the decline in our consolidated net worth that occurred in the first quarter. Though our net worth recovered significantly since then, we have continued to constrain the volume of business written in light of the BNSF acquisition. Also,
premium rates were not attractive enough in 2009 to warrant increasing volume.      Catastrophe and individual risk premiums
written were approximately $725 million in 2009, $1.1 billion in 2008 and $1.2 billion in 2007. The decreases in premium volume were principally attributable to increased industry capacity for catastrophe reinsurance and, consequently, fewer
opportunities to write business at prices we considered adequate. Based on soft market conditions prevailing at the end of 2009, we expect premium volume will continue to be constrained for at least the first half of 2010. The level of catastrophe
and individual risk business we write in a given period will vary significantly based upon market conditions and our assessment of the adequacy of premium rates. Premiums earned from catastrophe and individual risk contracts in 2009 declined 14%
from 2008, which decreased 39% from 2007.      Underwriting results of our catastrophe and individual risk business in 2009
reflected no significant losses from catastrophes during the year, while in 2008 we incurred approximately $270 million of estimated losses from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Underwriting gains in 2008 included $224 million from a contract in
which we agreed to purchase, under certain conditions, up to $4 billion of revenue bonds issued by the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Finance Corporation. Our obligation was conditioned upon, among other things, the occurrence of a
specified amount of Florida hurricane losses during a period that expired on December 31, 2008 and which was not met. Catastrophe and individual risk underwriting results in 2007 reflected no significant losses from catastrophe events occurring
in that year.      Premiums earned in 2009 from retroactive reinsurance included 2 billion Swiss Francs ( CHF )
(approximately $1.7 billion) from an adverse loss development contract with Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. and its affiliates ( Swiss Re ) covering substantially all of Swiss Re s non-life insurance losses and allocated loss
adjustment expenses for loss events occurring prior to January 1, 2009. The Swiss Re contract provides aggregate limits of indemnification of 5 billion CHF in excess of a retention of Swiss Re s reported loss reserves at December 31,
2008 (58.725 billion CHF) less 2 billion CHF. The impact on underwriting results from this contract was negligible as the premiums earned were offset by a corresponding amount of losses incurred. Premiums earned from retroactive reinsurance in 2007
included $7.1 billion from a reinsurance agreement with Equitas which became effective on March 30, 2007. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)        
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)             Underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance include the
recurring amortization of deferred charges that were initially established at the inception of these reinsurance contracts. At the inception of a contract, deferred charges represent the difference between the premium received and the estimated
ultimate losses payable. Deferred charges are subsequently amortized over the estimated claims payment period using the interest method and are based on estimates of the timing and amount of loss payments. Amortization charges are recorded as a
component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.      Premiums earned in 2009 from other multi-line business of $3.89 billion
were relatively unchanged from 2008. Premiums earned in 2009 and 2008 included $2.77 billion and $1.83 billion, respectively, from a 20% quota-share contract with Swiss Re covering substantially all of Swiss Re s property/casualty risks
incepting from January 1, 2008 and running through December 31, 2012. Excluding the Swiss Re quota-share contract, other multi-line business premiums earned in 2009 declined $969 million (46%) compared to 2008, primarily due to
significant reductions in aviation, property, workers  compensation and Lloyd s market volume. Other multi-line premiums earned in 2008 increased $1.31 billion (50%) over 2007 reflecting premiums earned from the Swiss Re quota-share
contract partially offset by lower premium volume from workers  compensation programs.      Pre-tax underwriting results from
other multi-line reinsurance in 2009 included foreign currency transaction losses of about $280 million. The non-cash losses arose from the conversion of certain reinsurance loss reserves and other liabilities denominated in foreign currencies
(primarily the U.K. Pound Sterling). The value of these currencies rose overall relative to the U.S. Dollar in 2009, resulting in losses. In 2008, underwriting results included foreign currency transaction gains of approximately $930 million,
resulting from sharp declines in the Euro and U.K. Pound Sterling versus the U.S. Dollar.      Excluding the effects of the
currency gains/losses, other multi-line business produced a pre-tax underwriting gain of $295 million in 2009, $32 million in 2008 and $435 million in 2007. Pre-tax underwriting results in 2008 included approximately $435 million of estimated
catastrophe losses from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. There were no significant catastrophe losses in 2009 or 2007, which also benefited from relatively low property loss ratios and favorable loss experience on workers  compensation business.
     In December 2007, we formed a monoline financial guarantee insurance company, Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation
( BHAC ). BHAC commenced operations during the first quarter of 2008 and is licensed in 49 states. In its first year of operation, BHAC produced $595 million of written premiums. In 2009, as a result of changing market conditions and
demand, BHAC wrote about $40 million in premiums, most of which was in the first half of the year.       Berkshire Hathaway
Primary Group       Our primary insurance group consists of a wide variety of independently managed insurance businesses that
principally write liability coverages for commercial accounts. These businesses include: Medical Protective Corporation ( MedPro ), a provider of professional liability insurance to physicians, dentists and other healthcare providers;
National Indemnity Company s primary group operation ( NICO Primary Group ), a writer of commercial motor vehicle and general liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation, whose subsidiaries underwrite specialty insurance
coverages; a group of companies referred to internally as  Homestate  operations, providers of standard commercial multi-line insurance; Central States Indemnity Company, a provider of credit and disability insurance to individuals
nationwide through financial institutions; Applied Underwriters, a provider of integrated workers  compensation solutions; and BoatU.S., a writer of insurance for owners of boats and small watercraft.      Earned premiums by our primary insurance businesses were $1,773 million in 2009, $1,950 million in 2008 and $1,999 million in 2007. In 2009,
with the exception of BoatU.S., each of our primary businesses generated lower premiums written and earned compared to 2008. Pre-tax underwriting gains as percentages of premiums earned were approximately 5% in 2009, 11% in 2008 and 14% in 2007. The
declines in underwriting gains in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 resulted from higher loss ratios as increased price competition narrowed profit margins, and higher expense ratios, which reflected the impact of fixed costs on lower premium volume.
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
     Insurance Investment Income        A summary of net investment income of our insurance operations follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Investment income consists of interest and dividends
earned on cash equivalents and investments allocable to our insurance businesses. Pre-tax investment income in 2009 exceeded 2008 by $451 million. The increase in investment income in 2009 primarily reflected earnings from several large investments
made in the fourth quarter of 2008 and first half of 2009, partially offset by lower earnings on cash and cash equivalents due to lower short-term interest rates and lower average cash balances.      In October 2008, we acquired securities issued by Wrigley, Goldman Sachs and General Electric. In March 2009, we acquired a 12%
convertible perpetual instrument of Swiss Re and in April 2009, we acquired an 8.5% Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of Dow. In December 2009, we also acquired $1.0 billion par amount of new senior notes issued by Wrigley. See Note 6
to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These investments were purchased at an aggregate cost of approximately $21.1 billion. At December 31, 2009, approximately 85% of these securities were held in our insurance group, with the remainder held
primarily in our finance and financial products businesses. Our insurance group earned about $1.65 billion in interest and dividends from the aforementioned investments in 2009. Partially offsetting these increases were reductions in dividends
earned from our investments in Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp common stock as a result of dividend rate cuts by those companies.      Beginning in 2009, our insurance investment income also includes earnings from equity method investments (BNSF and Moody s). Equity method earnings represent our proportionate share of the net earnings of these companies. As a result
of a reduction of our ownership of Moody s in July of 2009, we discontinued the use of the equity method for our investment in Moody s as of the beginning of the third quarter. Dividends earned on equity method investments are not
reflected in our earnings.      A summary of cash and investments held in our insurance businesses follows. Amounts are in
millions.       

*  
   Other investments include the investments in Wrigley, Goldman Sachs, General Electric, Swiss Re and Dow as well as the investment in BNSF, which as of
December 31, 2008 is accounted for under the equity method. Berkshire s investment in Moody s was accounted for under the equity method at December 31, 2008 but included in equity securities at December 31, 2009. In 2007,
investments in BNSF and Moody s are included in equity securities.            
   37   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Investment Income    (Continued)              
   Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2009 were as follows. Amounts are in
millions.       
    All U.S. government obligations are rated AAA by the
major rating agencies and approximately 85% of all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed securities were rated AA or higher. Non-investment grade securities represent securities that are
rated below BBB- or Baa3.      Invested assets derive from shareholder capital and reinvested earnings as well as net liabilities
under insurance contracts or  float.  The major components of float are unpaid losses, unearned premiums and other liabilities to policyholders less premiums and reinsurance receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive
reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs. Float approximated $62 billion at December 31, 2009, $58 billion at December 31, 2008 and $59 billion at December 31, 2007. The cost of float, as represented by the ratio of
underwriting gain or loss to average float, was negative for the last three years, as our insurance businesses generated underwriting gains in each year.        Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )        Revenues and
earnings of MidAmerican for each of the past three years are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.       

*  
   Net of noncontrolling interests and includes interest earned by Berkshire (net of related income taxes).          Through our 89.5% ownership interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ), we operate an international energy
business. MidAmerican s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of two regulated utility companies and two interstate natural gas pipeline companies. In the United Kingdom, MidAmerican operates two electricity distribution businesses.
The rates that our utilities and natural gas pipelines charge customers for energy and other services are
        
   38   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )    (Continued)              
   
generally subject to regulatory approval. Rates are based in large part on the costs of business operations, including a return on capital. To the extent we are not allowed to include such costs
in the approved rates, operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, MidAmerican also operates a diversified portfolio of independent power projects and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.
     Our U.S. based regulated utilities businesses are conducted through MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ) and
PacifiCorp. Revenues of MEC in 2009 declined $1,031 million (22%) from 2008, primarily due to lower regulated natural gas and electricity sales. Regulated natural gas revenues decreased by $520 million in 2009 primarily due to a lower average
per-unit cost of gas sold, which is passed on to customers and a 5% decline in sales volume. MEC s regulated electricity revenues declined $315 million primarily as a result of a 35% decline in average wholesale prices and lower volumes, which
are attributable to reduced demand in the current economic environment as well as mild temperatures in 2009. MEC s earnings before corporate interest and income taxes ( EBIT ) in 2009 declined $140 million (33%) compared to 2008,
primarily due to the lower regulated electricity revenues and increased depreciation due to additions of new wind-power generation facilities, partially offset by lower costs of purchased electricity and natural gas.      MEC s revenues in 2008 increased $417 million (10%) over 2007. The increase reflects (1) increased regulated natural gas
revenues from cost based price increases that are largely passed on to customers, (2) increased non-regulated gas revenues due primarily to higher prices and, to a lesser degree, increased volume and (3) increased wholesale regulated
electricity revenues driven by volume increases. EBIT of MEC in 2008 increased $13 million (3%) versus 2007, resulting primarily from higher operating margins on wholesale regulated electricity and slightly higher margins from regulated gas
sales, partially offset by increased interest expense and lower miscellaneous income.      PacifiCorp s revenues in 2009 of
$4,543 million were relatively unchanged from 2008. Revenues in 2009 reflect an overall decrease in sales volume (both wholesale and retail) of approximately 2% and lower wholesale prices, somewhat offset by higher retail prices approved by
regulators and higher renewable energy credit sales. PacifiCorp s EBIT in 2009 of $788 million increased $85 million (12%) over 2008, primarily due to lower volume and prices of energy purchased in response to lower sales volumes and the
use of lower-cost generation facilities put into service in the second half of 2008 and first quarter of 2009.      PacifiCorp s revenues in 2008 increased $239 million (6%) over 2007. The increase was primarily related to higher retail revenues due to regulator approved rate increases as well as increased customer growth and usage.
PacifiCorp s EBIT in 2008 increased $11 million (2%) versus 2007, as higher revenues were substantially offset by increased fuel costs and interest expense.      Our natural gas pipeline businesses are conducted through Northern Natural Gas and Kern River. Natural gas pipelines revenues and EBIT in 2009 declined $148 million and $138 million, respectively, from
2008 due primarily to lower volumes due to the current economic climate, lower price spreads and the effects of a favorable rate proceeding included in the results for 2008. Natural gas pipelines revenues in 2008 increased $133 million
(12%) over 2007. The increase reflected increased transportation revenue as a result of stronger market conditions at Northern Natural Gas, the impact of system expansion projects and changes related to Kern River s current rate
proceeding. EBIT in 2008 of the natural gas pipeline businesses increased $122 million (26%) over 2007, reflecting the impact of increased revenues.      U.K. utility revenues in 2009 declined $172 million (17%) versus 2008, principally due to the impact from foreign currency exchange rates as a result of a stronger U.S. Dollar in 2009 as
compared with 2008. EBIT of the U.K. utilities in 2009 declined $91 million (27%) compared to 2008. The decline in EBIT reflects foreign currency exchange rate changes as well as higher depreciation expense and charges to write down certain
exploration and development assets. U.K. utility revenues in 2008 declined $113 million (10%) versus 2007 primarily from the effect of the significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the U.K. Pound Sterling over the
second half of 2008. EBIT in 2008 was relatively unchanged from 2007 as the revenue decline was offset primarily by lower operating costs and interest expense.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )    (Continued)              
   Real estate brokerage revenues declined $76 million (7%) as compared to 2008. The
revenue decline was primarily due to lower home sales prices, as transaction volume was relatively unchanged from 2008. EBIT was $43 million in 2009 compared to a $45 million loss in 2008. The improvement in 2009 was principally due to lower
commission and other operating expenses. Real estate brokerage revenues in 2008 declined $364 million (24%) compared to 2007 due to significant declines in transaction volume as well as lower average home sale prices. Real estate brokerage
activities generated a loss before interest and taxes of $45 million in 2008 versus EBIT of $42 million in 2007. The loss in 2008 reflected the weak U.S. housing markets.      EBIT from other activities in 2009 included $125 million in stock-based compensation expense recorded in the first quarter of 2009 as a result of the purchase of common stock issued by MidAmerican upon
the exercise of the last remaining stock options that had been granted to certain members of management at the time of Berkshire s acquisition of MidAmerican in 2000. Revenues and EBIT in 2008 from other activities included a gain of $917
million from MidAmerican s investments in Constellation Energy and a fee of $175 million received as a result of the termination of the planned acquisition of Constellation Energy.        Manufacturing, Service and Retailing        A summary of revenues and earnings of our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses for each of the past three years follows. Amounts are in millions.       

*  
   We evaluate the results of NetJets using accounting standards for recognition of revenue and planned major maintenance expenses that were generally accepted when we
acquired NetJets but are no longer acceptable due to subsequent changes adopted by the FASB. Revenues and pre-tax earnings for our other service businesses shown above reflect these prior revenue and expense recognition methods. Revenues shown above
exceeded (were less than) the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements by $(942) million in 2009, $130 million in 2008 and $709 million in 2007. Pre-tax earnings in this table exceeded (were less than) the amounts included in our
Consolidated Financial Statements by $(142) million in 2009, $(4) million in 2008 and $48 million in 2007.           Marmon       We acquired a 60% interest in Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ) on March 18, 2008 and
currently own a 64% interest. Marmon s revenues, costs and expenses are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning as of the initial acquisition date. Revenues in 2009 declined approximately 27% from 2008 (including periods in
2008 prior to our acquisition). The revenue decline in 2009 reflected the impact of the recession which led to lower customer demand across all sectors, and particularly in the Building Wire, Engineered Wire and Cable, Flow Products and Distribution
Services sectors. Pre-tax earnings in 2009 declined approximately 26% from the full year of 2008 which reflects the decline in revenues, somewhat offset by a $160 million reduction in operating costs resulting from cost reduction efforts. In 2009,
the Retail Store Fixtures, Food Service Equipment and Water Treatment sectors produced comparable or improved earnings with 2008 despite lower revenues. The remaining sectors experienced lower earnings in 2009 compared to 2008.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)              
    McLane Company       McLane Company, Inc., ( McLane ) is a wholesale distributor of grocery and non-food products to retailers, convenience stores and
restaurants. McLane s business is marked by high sales volume and very low profit margins. Revenues were $31,207 million in 2009, an increase of $1,355 million (5%) compared to 2008. The increase in revenues in 2009 reflected an 8%
increase in the grocery business, partially offset by an 11% decline from the foodservice business. The revenue increases in 2009 reflected additional grocery customers as well as manufacturer price increases and state excise tax increases.
Approximately one-third of McLane s annual revenues are from Wal-Mart. A curtailment of purchasing by Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on McLane s earnings.      Pre-tax earnings in 2009 increased $68 million (25%) over 2008. Earnings in 2009 included the impact of a substantial inventory price
change gain associated with an increase in federal excise tax on cigarettes. Many tobacco manufacturers raised prices in anticipation of the tax increase, which allowed McLane to generate a one-time price change gain. The increase in earnings from
the inventory price change gain was partially offset by a federally mandated one-time floor stock tax on related inventory held and by lower earnings from the foodservice business. The gross margin rate in 2009 was 5.72%. Cigarette excise tax
inflation has a negative impact on margins by inflating gross sales while providing only marginal increases in profit since most markups are on a fixed amount per unit as opposed to a percentage of gross sales. Operating results in 2009 also
benefited from lower fuel costs and operating expense control efforts.      In 2008, revenues increased $1,773 million
(6%) compared to 2007, reflecting increased customers and manufacturer price increases and state excise tax increases. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 increased $44 million (19%) over 2007. The increase in earnings in 2008 was primarily
attributable to the increase in sales and to a lesser degree a slight increase in gross margins. The gross margin rate was 5.91% in 2008 compared to 5.79% in 2007. The comparative increase in the gross margin rate reflected price changes related to
certain categories of grocery products and the impact of a heavy liquids sales surcharge.       Shaw Industries    
  Shaw Industries ( Shaw ) is the world s largest manufacturer of tufted broadloom carpets and is a full-service flooring
company. Shaw s sales volume and earnings during the last two years have been negatively impacted by the depressed residential housing market and the economic recession in the U.S.      Revenues in 2009 were $4,011 million, a decline of $1,041 million (21%) from 2008. The revenue decrease in 2009 was primarily due to an
18% reduction in year-to-date carpet sales volume. In 2009, pre-tax earnings declined $61 million (30%) from 2008. Our operating results in 2009 benefitted from lower raw material costs. However, the favorable impact of the lower material costs
was more than offset by relatively higher manufacturing costs attributable to significant declines in sales volume, which decreased plant operating levels and manufacturing efficiencies and resulted in lower selling and general expense coverage.
During 2009, Shaw incurred costs of $101 million related to plant closures compared to $59 million in 2008.      Revenues in 2008
declined $321 million (6%) compared to 2007, principally due to a reduction in year-to-date carpet sales volume, partially offset by higher average selling prices and revenues from business acquisitions. In 2008, pre-tax earnings declined
$231 million (53%) to $205 million. The decline was attributable to both lower sales volume and higher product costs. Increases in petrochemical based raw material costs along with reduced manufacturing efficiencies caused the product cost
increase. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 also included the aforementioned $59 million of charges related to plant closures.       Other manufacturing       Our other manufacturing businesses include a wide array of businesses. Included in this
group are several manufacturers of building products (Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, Johns Manville and MiTek) and apparel (led by Fruit of the Loom which includes the Russell athletic apparel and sporting goods business and the Vanity Fair
Brands women s intimate apparel business). Also included in this group are Forest River, a leading manufacturer of leisure vehicles, CTB International ( CTB ), a manufacturer of equipment for the livestock and agricultural industries
and ISCAR Metalworking Companies ( IMC ), an industry leader in the metal cutting tools business with operations worldwide.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        
    Other manufacturing (Continued)             Nearly all of the businesses in our manufacturing group
experienced the adverse effects of the global economic recession in 2009 as consumers and customers cut purchases. Revenues in 2009 were $11,926 million, a decrease of $2,201 million (16%) from 2008. Revenues were lower for apparel (11%),
building products (20%) and other businesses (16%) as compared to 2008. Pre-tax earnings of our other manufacturing businesses were $814 million in 2009, a decrease of $861 million (51%) versus 2008. The declines in earnings reflected
the lower revenues as well as relatively higher costs resulting from lower manufacturing efficiencies. Revenues of $14,127 million in 2008 declined $332 million (2%) versus 2007. Pre-tax earnings were $1,675 million in 2008, a decline of
$362 million (18%) versus 2007. Pre-tax earnings declined or were relatively unchanged in nearly all of our other manufacturing operations. All of our other manufacturing businesses have taken actions to reduce costs and reduce or delay
capital spending until the economy improves.       Other service       Our other service businesses include NetJets, the world s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation
aircraft, and FlightSafety, a provider of high technology training to operators of aircraft. Among the other businesses included in this group are: TTI, a leading electronic components distributor (acquired March 2007); Business Wire, a leading
distributor of corporate news, multimedia and regulatory filings; The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of high quality kitchen tools; International Dairy Queen, a licensor and service provider to about 5,800 stores that offer prepared dairy treats and
food; The Buffalo News, a publisher of a daily and Sunday newspaper; and businesses that provide management and other services to insurance companies.      Revenues in 2009 were $6,585 million, a decrease of $1,850 million (22%) compared to 2008. Essentially all of our service businesses generated lower revenues in 2009, particularly at NetJets and to a
lesser degree at TTI. In 2009, NetJets  revenues declined $1,465 million (32%) versus 2008 due to a 77% decline in aircraft sales as well as lower flight operations revenues primarily due to a 19% decline in flight revenue hours. Revenues
at TTI were 17% lower in 2009 than in 2008 which we attribute primarily to the economic recession.      NetJets produced a pre-tax
loss in 2009 of $711 million compared to pre-tax earnings of $213 million in 2008. The pre-tax loss at NetJets in 2009 included asset writedowns and other downsizing costs of $676 million compared to $54 million of such charges in 2008. NetJets owns
more planes than is required for its present level of operations and plans to dispose of selected aircraft over time provided that prices are reasonable. We do not believe at this point that further downsizing will be required. We also believe, as a
result of actions taken to date, that NetJets is likely to operate at a profit in 2010, assuming there is no further deterioration in the U.S. economy or negative actions directed at the ownership of private aircraft.      Excluding the results of NetJets, our other service businesses produced pre-tax earnings of $620 million in 2009 compared to pre-tax
earnings of $758 million in 2008. The negative impact of the global recession was evident on substantially all of our other service businesses.      In 2008, revenues were $8,435 million, an increase of $643 million (8%) over 2007. The inclusion of twelve months of revenues from TTI in 2008 versus nine months in 2007 accounted for over
80% of the revenue increase. Excluding the impact of TTI, other service revenues in 2008 increased 2% over 2007. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 were $971 million, relatively unchanged from 2007. The impact from the TTI acquisition and increased
earnings of FlightSafety were offset by lower earnings from NetJets and The Pampered Chef.       Retailing       Our retailing operations consist of four home furnishings businesses (Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey, Star Furniture and
Jordan s), three jewelry businesses (Borsheims, Helzberg and Ben Bridge) and See s Candies. Retailing revenues were $2,869 million in 2009, a decrease of $235 million (8%) compared to 2008. In 2009, our home furnishings revenues declined
7% while jewelry revenues declined 12% versus 2008. Pre-tax earnings in 2009 of $161 million were relatively unchanged from 2008. See s Candies, Star Furniture and Nebraska Furniture Mart generated increased pre-tax earnings, while in the
aggregate our jewelry businesses posted a pre-tax loss. Throughout 2008 as the impact of the economic recession in the U.S. worsened, consumer spending declined and these conditions continued in 2009.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        
    Retailing (Continued)             Retailing revenues were $3,104 million in 2008, a decrease of
$293 million (9%) versus 2007. Pre-tax earnings of $163 million in 2008 declined $111 million (41%) compared to 2007. Seven of the eight retail operations experienced revenue declines and all eight of these operations had declines in
earnings compared to 2007.        Finance and Financial Products        A summary of revenues and earnings from our finance and financial products businesses follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Revenues in 2009 of our manufactured housing and
finance business (Clayton Homes) declined $303 million (9%) from 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a 16% decline in units sold partially offset by higher average selling prices as a result of product mix changes and a slight increase
in installment loan interest and other investment income. Revenues in 2008 declined $105 million (3%) from 2007, reflecting lower revenues from home sales and was partially offset by higher installment loan interest income. Also, revenues in
2007 included approximately $90 million from the housing communities division which was sold in the first quarter of 2008. Installment loan balances were approximately $12.3 billion as of December 31, 2009, a decline of about $300 million
from December 31, 2008.      Pre-tax earnings of Clayton Homes were $187 million in 2009, a decline of $19 million
(9%) from 2008. Pre-tax earnings in 2009 were negatively impacted by a $79 million increase in estimated loan loss provisions partially offset by improved margins from manufactured home sales and lower selling, general and administrative
expenses arising from cost reduction efforts. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 declined $320 million (61%) from 2007. Earnings in 2008 included a $125 million increase in estimated loan loss provisions, $25 million of losses arising from Hurricanes
Gustav and Ike and $38 million in losses from asset writedowns and plant closure costs. In both years overall operating results were negatively impacted by declines in home sales, increased borrowing costs and higher levels of borrowings.
     Revenues and pre-tax earnings from our furniture/transportation equipment leasing businesses in 2009 declined
$112 million (14%) and $73 million (84%), respectively, compared to 2008. The declines primarily reflected lower rental income driven by relatively low utilization rates for over-the-road trailer and storage units, and lower furniture
rentals. Significant cost components of this business are fixed (depreciation and facility expenses), so earnings declined disproportionately to revenues. Revenues and pre-tax earnings for 2008 decreased $37 million (5%) and $24 million (22%),
respectively, as compared to 2007, primarily for the reasons previously stated.      Revenues and earnings of Clayton Homes and
the furniture/transportation equipment leasing businesses have been negatively affected by the economic recession as well as the credit crisis. Our manufactured housing loan programs are currently at a competitive disadvantage to the traditional
single family mortgage market, which is currently receiving favorable interest rate subsidies from the U.S. government through government agency insured mortgages. Unlike site-built homes, very few factory-built homes qualify for these mortgages.
This has produced a negative impact on manufactured housing construction and sales. However, even under these conditions, we believe Clayton Homes will continue to operate profitably.      Earnings from our other finance business activities include investment income earned from a portfolio of fixed maturity and equity
investments held by certain finance subsidiaries; interest earned from a small portfolio of long-held commercial real estate loans; net interest earned from an annuity insurance business, whose earnings primarily consist of the net interest accruing
on interest bearing assets and liabilities; and earnings from an interest rate spread over the cost of Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation borrowing costs charged to and reflected in Clayton Homes  earnings.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Finance and Financial Products    (Continued)              
   Revenues and pre-tax earnings of other finance business activities in 2009 increased $55
million (9%) and $86 million (17%), respectively, due primarily to increased investment income earned from our acquisitions of higher yielding fixed maturity and equity investments, including portions of our acquisitions of Goldman Sachs and
Wrigley securities.        Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses        A summary of investment and derivative gains and losses and other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments follows. Amounts are in
millions.       
    Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP.
The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on periodic earnings. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, impact on total shareholders  equity because most equity and fixed maturity
investments are carried at fair value with any unrealized gain or loss included as components of accumulated other comprehensive income.      The recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment loss results in reductions in the cost basis of the investment, but not a reduction in fair value. Although we have recorded other-than-temporary
impairment losses in earnings, we may continue to hold positions in most of these securities. The recognition of such losses does not necessarily indicate that sales are imminent or planned and sales ultimately may not occur. We use no bright line
tests in determining whether impairments are temporary or other than temporary. We consider several factors in determining impairment losses including the current and expected long-term business prospects of the issuer, the length of time and
relative magnitude of the price decline and our ability and intent to hold the investment until the price recovers.      Other-than-temporary impairment losses in 2009 predominantly relate to a first quarter charge with respect to our investment in ConocoPhillips common stock. The market price of ConocoPhillips shares declined sharply over the last half of
2008. In 2009, we sold over half of the ConocoPhillips position we held at the end of 2008. Since a significant portion of the decline in the market value of our investment in ConocoPhillips occurred during the last half of 2008, a significant
portion of the other-than-temporary impairment losses recorded in earnings in the first quarter of 2009 were recognized in other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2008.      Other-than-temporary impairment losses recorded in 2008 (approximately $1.8 billion) were primarily related to investments in twelve equity
securities. The unrealized losses in these securities generally ranged from 40% to 90% of cost. After reviewing these investments, we concluded that there was considerable uncertainty in the business prospects of these companies and thus greater
uncertainty on the recoverability of the cost of the security.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses    (Continued)              
   With respect to equity securities with gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2009
and where other-than-temporary impairments were not recorded at December 31, 2009, approximately 90% of the losses were concentrated in four issuers. Unrealized losses were no greater than 30% of cost. In our judgment, the future earnings
potential and underlying business economics of these companies are favorable and as of December 31, 2009, we possessed the ability and intent to hold these securities until their prices recover. Changing market conditions and other facts and
circumstances may change the business prospects of these issuers as well as our ability and intent to hold these securities until the prices recover. Accordingly, we may record other-than-temporary impairment charges in future periods with respect
to one or more of these securities.      Derivative gains/losses primarily represent the changes in fair value of our credit
default and equity index put option contracts. Changes in the fair values of these contracts are reflected in earnings and can be significant, reflecting the volatility of equity and credit markets. We do not view the periodic gains or losses from
the changes in fair value as meaningful given the volatile nature of equity and credit markets over short periods of time, particularly with respect to equity index put option contracts.      The fair values of our credit default contracts are impacted by changes in credit default spreads, which have been volatile in recent
periods. In the first quarter of 2009, we increased our estimates of credit default liabilities, which produced a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.35 billion. This loss resulted from several corporate defaults and the widening of credit default
spreads, primarily with respect to the underlying non-investment grade issuers included in our high yield contracts. These non-investment grade issuers are typically highly leveraged and therefore dependent on having ongoing access to the capital
markets. The freezing of the credit markets in late 2008 and early 2009 was particularly detrimental to these issuers. As a result, there were a number of defaults in 2009 and we made loss payments of approximately $1.9 billion. Over the last nine
months of 2009, credit default spreads narrowed significantly and the estimated values of our liabilities declined resulting in pre-tax gains of approximately $2.14 billion.      The losses from our credit default contracts in 2008 derived primarily from increases in the fair value of our liabilities due to a
significant widening of credit default spreads during the fourth quarter of 2008. The estimated fair value of credit default contracts at December 31, 2008 was $4.1 billion, an increase of $2.3 billion from December 31, 2007. The
year-to-date increase included fair value pre-tax losses of $1.8 billion and premiums from contracts entered into in 2008 of $633 million, partially offset by loss payments of $152 million.      In 2009, our gains on equity index put option contracts were $2.7 billion, compared to losses of $5.0 billion in 2008. The gains in 2009
reflected increases in the underlying equity indexes ranging from approximately 19% to 23%, partially offset by the impact of a weaker U.S. Dollar on non-U.S. contracts and lower interest rates. These factors combined to produce a decrease in
our estimated liabilities. The losses in 2008 reflected declines of between 30% and 45% in underlying indexes. During the fourth quarter of 2008, these indexes declined between 10% and 22%. Our ultimate payment obligations, if any, under equity
index put option contracts will be determined as of the contract expiration dates, which begin in 2018. As previously noted, we do not believe that the gains or losses reflected in earnings in the past two years to be meaningful relative to
evaluating our ultimate payment obligations, if any. There have been no loss payments to date.       Financial Condition       Our balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and financial strength. Our consolidated shareholders  equity increased
$21.8 billion during 2009 to $131.1 billion at December 31, 2009. Our consolidated cash and invested assets, excluding assets of utilities and energy and finance and financial products businesses, was approximately $146.0 billion at
December 31, 2009 (including cash and cash equivalents of $27.9 billion) and $118.9 billion at December 31, 2008 (including cash and cash equivalents of $24.3 billion). Our invested assets are held predominantly in our
insurance businesses.      In 2009, we acquired a 12% convertible perpetual security issued by Swiss Re for $2.7 billion, an 8.5%
Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of Dow for $3 billion and senior notes of Wrigley due in 2013 and 2014 for $1.0 billion. Investment income generated by these investments will greatly exceed income currently earned on short-term
investments.         
   45   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)          Financial Condition   (Continued)            
   Notes payable and other borrowings of our insurance and other businesses declined $630
million in 2009 to approximately $3.7 billion at December 31. The decline was primarily due to a combination of term debt maturities and a reduction in short-term borrowings.      On February 12, 2010, we completed the acquisition of BNSF by acquiring the outstanding shares of BNSF that we did not already own for
aggregate consideration of approximately $26.5 billion ($100 per BNSF share). The aggregate consideration consisted of a combination of $15.9 billion in cash and about 95,000 equivalent Class A shares of Berkshire common stock. In connection
with the BNSF acquisition, we issued $8.0 billion aggregate par amount of senior notes consisting of $2.0 billion par amount of notes due in 2011; $1.7 billion par amount of notes due in 2012; $2.6 billion par amount of notes due in 2013; and $1.7
billion par amount of notes due in 2015. In connection with its railroad operations, BNSF regularly issues debt to finance capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes. We expect this practice to continue after our acquisition. As of
December 31, 2009, BNSF had debt outstanding of about $10.3 billion. We do not intend to provide guarantees on BNSF debt outstanding at the acquisition date or issued in the future.      Capital expenditures of our utilities and energy businesses in 2009 were approximately $3.4 billion and are currently forecasted to be
approximately $2.6 billion in 2010. We expect MidAmerican and its operating subsidiaries to fund future capital expenditures with cash flows from operations and debt proceeds. MidAmerican s borrowings were $19.6 billion at December 31,
2009, an increase of $434 million from December 31, 2008. MidAmerican and its operating subsidiaries currently have no significant debt maturities until 2011, when about $1.1 billion matures. We have committed until February 28, 2011 to
provide up to $3.5 billion of additional capital to MidAmerican to permit the repayment of its debt obligations or to fund its regulated utility subsidiaries. Berkshire does not intend to guarantee the repayment of debt by MidAmerican or any of its
subsidiaries.      Assets of the finance and financial products businesses, which consisted primarily of loans and finance
receivables, fixed maturity securities, other investments and cash and cash equivalents, were approximately $29.0 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $27.1 billion at December 31, 2008. Our finance and financial products liabilities were
$26.4 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $30.7 billion at December 31, 2008. The decline in liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease of $5.3 billion in derivative contract liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, notes
payable and other borrowings of $14.6 billion included approximately $12.1 billion par amount of medium-term notes issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation ( BHFC ), a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of Berkshire. The BHFC notes
that were outstanding at December 31, 2009, are unsecured and mature at various dates between 2010 and 2018. The proceeds from the medium-term notes were used to finance originated and acquired loans of Clayton Homes. The full and timely
payment of principal and interest on the notes is guaranteed by Berkshire. In January 2010, BHFC repaid $1.5 billion of its maturing notes and issued new notes consisting of $250 million par amount due in 2012 and $750 million par amount due in
2040.      During 2008 and continuing into the first part of 2009, access to credit markets became limited as a consequence of the
worldwide credit crisis. As a result, interest rates for investment grade corporate issuers increased relative to government obligations, even for companies with strong credit histories and ratings. However, we believe that the credit crisis has
abated and interest rates for investment grade issuers relative to government obligations have declined. Nevertheless, restricted access to credit markets at affordable rates in the future could have a significant negative impact on our operations,
particularly the utilities and energy and the finance and financial products operations. We believe we currently maintain ample liquidity to cover our existing contractual obligations and provide for contingent liquidity needs.       Contractual Obligations       We
regularly enter into contracts, which obligate us to make cash payments to counterparties in future periods. Contractual obligations arise under financing and other agreements, which are reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements and other
long-term contracts to acquire goods or services in the future, which are not currently reflected in our financial statements. Such obligations, including future minimum rentals under operating leases, will be reflected in future periods as the
goods are delivered or services provided. Amounts due as of the balance sheet date for purchases where the goods and services have been received and a liability incurred are not included to the extent that such amounts are due within one year of the
balance sheet date.      The obligations of our insurance businesses to make payments of losses and loss adjustment expenses
arising under property and casualty insurance contracts are estimates. The timing and amount of such payments are contingent upon the outcome of claim settlement activities that will occur over many years. The amounts presented in the following
table were
        
   46   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)          Contractual Obligations   (Continued)            
   
estimated based upon past claim settlement activities and therefore are subject to significant estimation error. The factors affecting the ultimate amount of claims are discussed in the following
section regarding our critical accounting policies. Although certain insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses are ceded to and recoverable from others under reinsurance contracts, such recoverables are not reflected in the table.      A summary of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009 follows. Amounts are in millions.       

(1)       
      Includes interest.   
          
     Critical Accounting Policies       Certain accounting policies require management to make estimates and judgments concerning transactions that will be settled several years in
the future. Amounts recognized in our financial statements from such estimates are necessarily based on numerous assumptions involving varying and potentially significant degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts currently
reflected in our financial statements will likely increase or decrease in the future as additional information becomes available.        Property and casualty losses        A summary of our consolidated liabilities for unpaid property and casualty
losses is presented in the table below. Except for certain workers  compensation reserves, liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses (referred to in this section as  gross unpaid losses ) are reflected in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets without discounting for time value, regardless of the length of the claim-tail. Amounts are in millions.       

*   
   Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges on reinsurance assumed and before foreign currency translation effects.         We record liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based
upon estimates of the ultimate amounts payable under the contracts with respect to losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date. The timing and amount of loss payments is subject to a great degree of variability and is contingent upon, among
other things, the timing of claim reporting from insureds and cedants and the determination of the ultimate amount through the loss adjustment process. A variety of techniques are used in establishing the liabilities for unpaid losses. Regardless of
the techniques used, significant judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the ultimate amounts payable in the future. As a result, uncertainties are imbedded in and permeate the actuarial loss reserving techniques and processes used.
        
   47   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              
   As of any balance sheet date, not all claims that have occurred have been reported and
not all reported claims have been settled. Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves include provisions for reported claims (referred to as  case reserves ) and for claims that have not been reported (referred to as incurred but not yet
reported ( IBNR ) reserves). The time period between the loss occurrence date and settlement payment date is referred to as the  claim-tail.  Property claims usually have fairly short claim-tails and, absent litigation, are
reported and settled within a few years of occurrence. Casualty losses usually have very long claim-tails, occasionally extending for decades. Casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by changing contract
interpretations. The legal environment further contributes to extending claim-tails.      Receivables are recorded with respect to
losses ceded to other reinsurers and are estimated in a manner similar to liabilities for insurance losses. In addition to the factors cited above, reinsurance recoverables may ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to
perform under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.      We utilize loss reserving techniques that are believed to best fit the particular business. Additional information regarding reserving processes of our significant insurance businesses (GEICO, General Re
and BHRG) follows.       GEICO       GEICO s gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense reserves as of December 31, 2009 were $8,561 million. As of December 31, 2009, gross reserves included $6,187 million of reported
average, case and case development reserves and $2,374 million of IBNR reserves. GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance which has a relatively short claim-tail. The key assumptions affecting the setting of our reserves include
projections of ultimate claim counts ( frequency ) and average loss per claim ( severity ), which includes loss adjustment expenses.      Our reserving methodologies produce reserve estimates based upon the individual claims (or a  ground-up  approach), which yields an aggregate estimate of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment
expenses. Ranges of loss estimates are not determined in the aggregate.      Our actuaries establish and evaluate unpaid loss
reserves using recognized standard actuarial loss development methods and techniques. The significant reserve components (and percentage of gross reserves) are: (1) average reserves (20%), (2) case and case development reserves
(55%) and (3) IBNR reserves (25%). Each component of loss reserves is affected by the expected frequency and average severity of claims. Such amounts are analyzed using statistical techniques on historical claims data and adjusted when
appropriate to reflect perceived changes in loss patterns. Data is analyzed by policy coverage, rated state, reporting date and occurrence date, among other factors. A brief discussion of each reserve component follows.      We establish average reserve amounts for reported auto damage claims and new liability claims prior to the development of an individual case
reserve. The average reserves are established as a reasonable estimate for incurred claims for which our claims adjusters have insufficient time and information to make specific claim estimates and for a large number of minor physical damage claims
that are paid within a relatively short time after being reported. Average reserve amounts are driven by the estimated average severity per claim and the number of new claims opened.      Our claims adjusters generally establish individual liability claim case loss and loss adjustment expense reserve estimates as soon as the
specific facts and merits of each claim can be evaluated. Case reserves represent the amounts that in the judgment of the adjusters are reasonably expected to be paid in the future to completely settle the claim, including expenses. Individual case
reserves are revised as more information becomes known.      For most liability coverages, case reserves alone are an insufficient
measure of the ultimate cost due in part to the longer claim-tail, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the incompleteness of facts available at the time the case reserve is established. Therefore, we establish additional case development
reserve estimates, which are usually percentages of the case reserve. As of December 31, 2009, case development reserves averaged approximately 20% of total established case reserves. In general, case development factors are selected by a
retrospective analysis of the overall adequacy of historical case reserves. Case development factors are reviewed and revised periodically.      For unreported claims, IBNR reserve estimates are calculated by first projecting the ultimate number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage by using historical
quarterly and monthly claim counts to develop
        
   48   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    GEICO (Continued)             
age-to-age projections of the ultimate counts by accident quarter. Reported claims are subtracted from the ultimate claim projections to produce an estimate of the number of unreported claims.
The number of unreported claims is multiplied by an estimate of the average cost per unreported claim to produce the IBNR reserve amount. Actuarial techniques are difficult to apply reliably in certain situations, such as to new legal precedents,
class action suits or recent catastrophes. Consequently, supplemental IBNR reserves for these types of events may be established through the collaborative effort of actuarial, claims and other management.      For each of GEICO s major coverages, we test the adequacy of the total loss reserves using one or more actuarial projections based on
claim closure models, paid loss triangles and incurred loss triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims occurring in a given period and projects the ultimate cost.      Loss reserve estimates recorded at the end of 2008 developed downward by $194 million when reevaluated through December 31, 2009,
producing a corresponding increase to pre-tax earnings in 2009. These downward reserve developments represented approximately 1% of earned premiums in 2009 and approximately 2.6% of the prior year-end reserve amount. Reserving assumptions at
December 31, 2009 were modified appropriately to reflect the most recent frequency and severity results. Future reserve development will depend on whether actual frequency and severity are more or less than anticipated.      Within the automobile line of business, reserves for liability coverages are more uncertain due to the longer claim-tails. Approximately 90%
of GEICO s reserves as of December 31, 2009 were for automobile liability, of which bodily injury ( BI ) coverage accounted for approximately 55%. We believe it is reasonably possible that the average BI severity will change by
at least one percentage point from the severity used. If actual BI severity changes one percentage point from what was used in establishing the reserves, our reserves would develop up or down by approximately $124 million resulting in a
corresponding decrease or increase in pre-tax earnings. Many of the same economic forces that would likely cause BI severity to be different from expected would likely also cause severities for other injury coverages to differ in the same direction.
     Our exposure in GEICO to highly uncertain losses is believed to be limited to certain commercial excess umbrella policies
written during a period from 1981 to 1984. Remaining reserves associated with such exposure are currently a relatively insignificant component of GEICO s total reserves (approximately 2%) and there is minimal apparent asbestos or environmental
liability exposure. Related claim activity over the past year was insignificant.       General Re and BHRG       Property and casualty loss reserves of our General Re and BHRG underwriting units derive primarily from assumed reinsurance. Additional
uncertainties are unique to loss reserving processes for reinsurance. The nature, extent, timing and perceived reliability of information received from ceding companies varies widely depending on the type of coverage, the contractual reporting terms
(which are affected by market conditions and practices) and other factors. Due to the lack of standardization of contract terms and conditions, the wide variability of coverage needs of individual clients and the tendency for those needs to change
rapidly in response to market conditions, the ongoing economic impact of such uncertainties, in and of themselves, cannot be reliably measured.      The nature and extent of loss information provided under many facultative, per occurrence excess contracts or retroactive contracts may not differ significantly from the information received under a
primary insurance contract. This occurs when company personnel either work closely with the ceding company in settling individual claims or manage the claims themselves. Loss information from aggregate excess-of-loss contracts, including catastrophe
losses and quota-share treaties, is often less detailed. Occasionally, loss information is reported in summary format rather than on an individual claim basis. Loss data is provided through periodic reports and may include the amount of ceded losses
paid where reimbursement is sought as well as case loss reserve estimates. Ceding companies infrequently provide IBNR estimates to reinsurers.      Each of our reinsurance businesses has established practices to identify and gather needed information from clients. These practices include, for example, comparison of expected premiums to reported
premiums to help identify delinquent client periodic reports and claim reviews to facilitate loss reporting and identify inaccurate or incomplete claim reporting. These practices are periodically evaluated and changed as conditions, risk factors and
unanticipated areas of exposures are identified.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    General Re and BHRG (Continued)             The timing of claim reporting to reinsurers is delayed in
comparison with primary insurance. In some instances there are multiple reinsurers assuming and ceding parts of an underlying risk causing multiple contractual intermediaries between us and the primary insured. In these instances, the delays in
reporting can be compounded. The relative impact of reporting delays on the reinsurer varies depending on the type of coverage, contractual reporting terms and other factors. Contracts covering casualty losses on a per occurrence excess basis may
experience longer delays in reporting due to the length of the claim-tail as regards to the underlying claim. In addition, ceding companies may not report claims to the reinsurer until they believe it is reasonably possible that the reinsurer will
be affected, usually determined as a function of its estimate of the claim amount as a percentage of the reinsurance contract retention. However, the timing of reporting large per occurrence excess property losses or property catastrophe losses may
not vary significantly from primary insurance.      Under contracts where periodic premium and claims reports are required from
ceding companies, such reports are generally required at quarterly intervals which in the U.S. range from 30 to 90 days after the end of the accounting period. Outside the U.S., reinsurance reporting practices vary. In certain countries clients
report annually, often 90 to 180 days after the end of the annual period. The different client reporting practices generally do not result in a significant increase in risk or uncertainty as the actuarial reserving methodologies are adjusted to
compensate for the delays.      Premium and loss data is provided to us through at least one intermediary (the primary insurer),
so there is a risk that the loss data provided is incomplete, inaccurate or outside the coverage terms. Information provided by ceding companies is reviewed for completeness and compliance with the contract terms. Reinsurance contracts generally
allow us to have access to the cedant s books and records with respect to the subject business and provide us the ability to conduct audits to determine the accuracy and completeness of information. Audits are conducted as we deem them
appropriate.      In the normal course of business, disputes with clients occasionally arise concerning whether certain claims are
covered under the reinsurance policies. We resolve most coverage disputes through the involvement of our claims department personnel and the appropriate client personnel or by independent outside counsel. If disputes cannot be resolved, our
contracts generally specify whether arbitration, litigation, or alternative dispute resolution will be invoked. There are no coverage disputes at this time for which an adverse resolution would likely have a material impact on our consolidated
results of operations or financial condition.      In summary, the scope, number and potential variability of assumptions required
in estimating ultimate losses from reinsurance contracts are more uncertain than primary property and casualty insurance due to the factors previously discussed.       General Re       General Re s gross and net unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses and gross reserves by major line of business as of December 31, 2009 are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.       

(2)       
      Includes directors and officers and errors and omissions coverage.

(3)       
      Includes medical malpractice and umbrella coverage.              
   50   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    General Re (Continued)             The discussion that follows describes our process of
establishing loss reserve estimates at General Re. Our loss reserve estimation process is based upon a ground-up approach, beginning with case estimates and supplemented by additional case reserves ( ACRs ) and IBNR reserves. Critical
judgments in establishing loss reserves involve the establishment of ACRs by claim examiners, the expectation of ultimate loss ratios which drive IBNR reserve amounts and comparison of case reserve reporting trends to the expected loss reporting
patterns. Recorded reserve amounts are subject to  tail risk  where reported losses develop beyond the maximum expected loss emergence pattern time period.      We do not routinely determine loss reserve ranges because we believe that the techniques necessary have not sufficiently developed and the myriad of assumptions required render such resulting ranges to be
unreliable. In addition, counts of claims or average amounts per claim are not utilized because clients do not consistently provide reliable data in sufficient detail.      Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, our claim examiners make independent evaluations of loss amounts. In some cases, examiners  estimates differ from amounts reported by
ceding companies. If the examiners  estimates are significantly greater than the ceding company s estimates, the claims are further investigated. If deemed appropriate, ACRs are established above the amount reported by the ceding company.
As of December 31, 2009, ACRs aggregated $3.0 billion before discounts and were concentrated in workers  compensation reserves, and to a lesser extent in professional liability reserves. Our examiners also periodically conduct detailed
claim reviews of individual clients and case reserves are often increased as a result. In 2009, we conducted about 330 claim reviews.      Our actuaries classify all loss and premium data into segments ( reserve cells ) primarily based on product (e.g., treaty, facultative and program) and line of business (e.g., auto liability, property, etc.). For each reserve
cell, premiums and losses are aggregated by accident year, policy year or underwriting year (depending on client reporting practices) and analyzed over time. We internally refer to these loss aggregations as loss triangles, which serve as the
primary basis for our IBNR reserve calculations. We review over 300 reserve cells for our North American business and approximately 900 reserve cells with respect to our international business.      We use loss triangles to determine the expected case loss emergence patterns for most coverages and, in conjunction with expected loss
ratios by accident year, loss triangles are further used to determine IBNR reserves. While additional calculations form the basis for estimating the expected loss emergence pattern, the determination of the expected loss emergence pattern is not
strictly a mechanical process. In instances where the historical loss data is insufficient, we use estimation formulas along with reliance on other loss triangles and judgment. Factors affecting our loss development triangles include but are not
limited to the following: changes in client claims practices, changes in claim examiners  use of ACRs or the frequency of client company claim reviews, changes in policy terms and coverage (such as client loss retention levels and occurrence
and aggregate policy limits), changes in loss trends and changes in legal trends that result in unanticipated losses, as well as other sources of statistical variability. Collectively, these factors influence the selection of the expected loss
emergence patterns.      We select expected loss ratios by reserve cell, by accident year, based upon reviewing forecasted losses
and indicated ultimate loss ratios that are predicted from aggregated pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate loss ratios are calculated using the selected loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned premium. If the selected emergence pattern
is not accurate, then the indicated ultimate loss ratios may not be accurate, which can affect the selected loss ratios and hence the IBNR reserve. As with selected loss emergence patterns, selecting expected loss ratios is not a strictly mechanical
process and judgment is used in the analysis of indicated ultimate loss ratios and department pricing loss ratios.      We
estimate IBNR reserves by reserve cell, by accident year, using the expected loss emergence patterns and the expected loss ratios. The expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios are the critical IBNR reserving assumptions and are
updated annually. Once the annual IBNR reserves are determined, our actuaries calculate expected case loss emergence for the upcoming calendar year. These calculations do not involve new assumptions and use the prior year-end expected loss emergence
patterns and expected loss ratios. The expected losses are then allocated into interim estimates that are compared to actual reported losses in the subsequent year. This comparison provides a test of the adequacy of prior year-end IBNR reserves and
forms the basis for possibly changing IBNR reserve assumptions during the course of the year.      In 2009, for prior years 
workers  compensation losses, our reported claims were less than expected claims by about $186 million. However, further analysis of the workers  compensation reserve cells by segment indicated the need for additional IBNR. These
developments precipitated about $133 million of a net increase in nominal IBNR reserve estimates for unreported
        
   51   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    General Re (Continued)             
occurrences. After deducting $148 million for the change in net reserve discounts during the year, workers  compensation losses from prior years reduced pre-tax earnings in 2009 by $95
million. To illustrate the sensitivity of changes in expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios for our significant excess-of-loss workers  compensation reserve cells, an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected
emergence pattern and an increase of ten percent in the expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in our nominal IBNR reserves of approximately $704 million and $408 million on a discounted basis as of December 31, 2009. The increase in
discounted reserves would produce a corresponding decrease in pre-tax earnings. We believe it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates.      Our other casualty and general liability reported losses (excluding mass tort losses) were favorable in 2009 relative to expectations.
Casualty losses tend to be long-tail and it should not be assumed that favorable loss experience in a given year means that loss reserve amounts currently established will continue to develop favorably. For our significant other casualty and general
liability reserve cells (including medical malpractice, umbrella, auto and general liability), an increase of five points in the tails of the expected emergence patterns and an increase of five percent in expected loss ratios (one percent for large
international proportional reserve cells) would produce a net increase in our nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $922 million. We believe it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected
loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates in any of the individual aforementioned reserve cells. However, given the diversification in worldwide business, more likely outcomes are believed to be less than $922
million.      Our property losses were lower than expected in 2009 but the nature of property loss experience tends to be more
volatile because of the effect of catastrophes and large individual property losses. In response to favorable claim developments and another year of information, estimated remaining World Trade Center losses were reduced by $17 million.   
  In certain reserve cells within excess directors and officers and errors and omissions ( D O and E O ) coverages, IBNR
reserves are based on estimated ultimate losses without consideration of expected emergence patterns. These cells often involve a spike in loss activity arising from recent industry developments making it difficult to select an expected loss
emergence pattern. For our large D O and E O reserve cells an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern (for those cells where emergence patterns are considered) and an increase of ten percent in the expected loss
ratios would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $220 million. We believe it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss
ratios to increase at these rates.      Overall industry-wide loss experience data and informed judgment are used when internal
loss data is of limited reliability, such as in setting the estimates for mass tort, asbestos and hazardous waste (collectively,  mass tort ) claims. Unpaid mass tort reserves at December 31, 2009 were approximately $1.7 billion gross
and $1.3 billion net of reinsurance. Such reserves were approximately $1.8 billion gross and $1.2 billion net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2008. Mass tort net claims paid were about $87 million in 2009. In 2009, ultimate loss estimates for
asbestos and environmental claims were increased by $83 million. In addition to the previously described methodologies, we consider  survival ratios  based on net claim payments in recent years versus net unpaid losses as a rough guide to
reserve adequacy. The survival ratio based on claims payments made over the last three years was approximately 14.5 years as of December 31, 2009. The insurance industry s comparable survival ratio for asbestos and pollution reserves was
approximately 8 years. Estimating mass tort losses is very difficult due to the changing legal environment. Although such reserves are believed to be adequate, significant reserve increases may be required in the future if new exposures or claimants
are identified, new claims are reported or new theories of liability emerge.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              
    BHRG       BHRG s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2009 are summarized as follows. Amounts are in millions.
      
    A discussion of our loss reserve estimation processes used by our BHRG underwriting unit follows. In
general, the methodologies we use to establish loss reserves vary widely and encompass many of the common methodologies employed in the actuarial field today. Certain traditional methodologies such as paid and incurred loss development techniques,
incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques and frequency and severity techniques are utilized as well as ground-up techniques where appropriate. Additional judgments must also be employed to consider changes in contract conditions and
terms as well as the incidence of litigation or legal and regulatory change.      As of December 31, 2009, our gross loss
reserves related to retroactive reinsurance policies were predominantly casualty losses. Our retroactive policies include excess-of-loss contracts, in which losses (relating to loss events occurring before a specified date on or before the contract
date) above a contractual retention are indemnified or contracts that indemnify all losses paid by the counterparty after the policy effective date. We paid retroactive reinsurance losses and loss adjustment expenses of $1.1 billion in 2009. The
classification  reported case reserves  has no practical analytical value with respect to retroactive policies since the amount is often derived from reports in bulk from ceding companies, who may have inconsistent definitions of
 case reserves.  We review and establish loss reserve estimates, including estimates of IBNR reserves, in the aggregate by contract.      In establishing retroactive reinsurance reserves, we often analyze historical aggregate loss payment patterns and project losses into the future under various scenarios. The claim-tail is expected to be
very long for many policies and may last several decades. We assign judgmental probability factors to these aggregate loss payment scenarios and an expectancy outcome is determined. We monitor claim payment activity and review ceding company reports
and other information concerning the underlying losses. Since the claim-tail is expected to be very long for such contracts, we reassess expected ultimate losses as significant events related to the underlying losses are reported or revealed during
the monitoring and review process. During 2009, retroactive reserves developed upward by approximately $420 million.      Our
liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury losses and loss adjustment expenses are presently concentrated within retroactive reinsurance contracts. Reserves for such losses were approximately $9.1 billion at December 31, 2009
and $9.2 billion at December 31, 2008. We paid losses in 2009 attributable to these exposures of approximately $600 million. BHRG, as a reinsurer, does not regularly receive reliable information regarding asbestos, environmental and latent
injury claims from all ceding companies on a consistent basis, particularly with respect to multi-line treaty or aggregate excess-of-loss policies. Periodically, we conduct a ground-up analysis of the underlying loss data of the reinsured to make an
estimate of ultimate reinsured losses. When detailed loss information is unavailable, our estimates can only be developed by applying recent industry trends and projections to aggregate client data. Judgments in these areas necessarily include the
stability of the legal and regulatory environment under which these claims will be adjudicated. Potential legal reform and legislation could also have a significant impact on establishing loss reserves for mass tort claims in the future.   
  The maximum losses payable under our retroactive policies are not expected to exceed approximately $29 billion as of December 31,
2009. Absent significant judicial or legislative changes affecting asbestos, environmental or latent injury exposures, we currently believe it unlikely that unpaid losses as of December 31, 2009 ($18.0 billion) will develop upward to the
maximum loss payable or downward by more than 15%.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    BHRG (Continued)             A significant number of our reinsurance contracts are expected to have a low frequency of claim occurrence
combined with a potential for high severity of claims. These include property losses from catastrophes, terrorism and aviation risks under catastrophe and individual risk contracts. Loss reserves related to catastrophe and individual risk contracts
were approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009, a decline of about $200 million from December 31, 2008. In 2009 and 2008, loss reserves for prior years  events declined by approximately $280 million and $200 million,
respectively, which produced corresponding increases to pre-tax earnings each year. Reserving techniques for catastrophe and individual risk contracts generally rely more on a per-policy assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual
loss event rather than with an analysis of the historical development patterns of past losses. Catastrophe loss reserves are provided when it is probable that an insured loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Absent litigation
affecting the interpretation of coverage terms, the expected claim-tail is relatively short and thus the estimation error in the initial reserve estimates usually emerges within 24 months after the loss event.      Other reinsurance reserve amounts are generally based upon loss estimates reported by ceding companies and IBNR reserves that are primarily
a function of reported losses from ceding companies and anticipated loss ratios established on an individual contract basis, supplemented by management s judgment of the impact on each contract of major catastrophe events as they become known.
Anticipated loss ratios are based upon management s judgment considering the type of business covered, analysis of each ceding company s loss history and evaluation of that portion of the underlying contracts underwritten by each ceding
company, which are in turn ceded to BHRG. A range of reserve amounts as a result of changes in underlying assumptions is not prepared.        Derivative contract liabilities        Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include significant amounts of
derivative contract liabilities that are measured at fair value. Our significant derivative contract exposures are concentrated in credit default and equity index put option contracts. These contracts were primarily entered into in over-the-counter
markets and certain elements in the terms and conditions of such contracts are not standardized. In particular, we are not required to post collateral under most of our contracts. Furthermore, there is no source of independent data available to us
showing trading volume and actual prices of completed transactions. As a result, the values of these liabilities are primarily based on valuation models, discounted cash flow models or other valuation techniques that are believed to be used by
market participants. Such models or other valuation techniques may use inputs that are observable in the marketplace, while others are unobservable. Unobservable inputs require us to make certain projections and assumptions about the information
that would be used by market participants in establishing prices. Considerable judgment may be required in making assumptions, including the selection of interest rates, default and recovery rates and volatility. Changes in assumptions may have a
significant effect on values. For these reasons, we classify our credit default and equity index put option contracts as Level 3 measurements under GAAP.      The fair values of our high yield credit default contracts are primarily based on indications of bid/ask pricing data. The bid/ask data represents non-binding indications of prices for which similar
contracts would be exchanged. Pricing data for the high yield index contracts is obtained from one to three sources depending on the particular index. For the single name and municipal issuer credit default contracts, our fair values are generally
based on credit default spread information obtained from a widely used reporting source. We monitor and review pricing data for consistency as well as reasonableness with respect to current market conditions. We generally base estimated fair value
on the ask prices (the average of such prices if more than one indication is obtained). We make no significant adjustments to the pricing data referred to above. Further, we make no significant adjustments to fair value for non-performance risk. We
concluded that the values produced from this data (without adjustment) reasonably represented the value for which we could have transferred these liabilities. However, our contract terms (particularly the lack of collateral posting requirements)
likely preclude any transfer of the contracts to third parties. Accordingly, prices in a current actual settlement or transfer could differ significantly from the fair values used in the financial statements. We do not operate as a derivatives
dealer and currently we do not utilize offsetting strategies to hedge these contracts. We intend to allow our credit default contracts to run off to their respective expiration dates.      Pricing data for newer high yield credit default contracts tends to vary little among the different pricing sources, which we believe
indicates that trading of such contracts is relatively active. As contracts age towards their expiration dates, the variations in pricing data can widen, which we believe is indicative of less active markets. However, the impact of such variations
is partially mitigated by shorter remaining durations, lower exposures due to losses paid to date and by the relatively greater
        
   54   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Derivative contract liabilities    (Continued)              
   
availability of data on newer contracts, which is used for comparison. We entered into one credit default contract in 2009, while several contracts expired or terminated. Accordingly, our
remaining risk under credit default contracts has declined from year end 2008.      We determine the estimated fair value of
equity index put option contracts based on the widely used Black-Scholes option valuation model. Inputs to the model include the current index value, strike price, discount rate, dividend rate and contract expiration date. The weighted average
discount and dividend rates used as of December 31, 2009 were 4.0% and 2.7%, respectively, and were each approximately 4.0% as of December 31, 2008. The discount rates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 were approximately 55 basis
points and 125 basis points (on a weighted average basis), respectively, over benchmark interest rates and represented an estimate of the spread between our borrowing rates and the benchmark rates for comparable durations. The spread adjustments
were based on spreads for our obligations and obligations for comparably rated issuers. We believe the most significant economic risks relate to changes in the index value component and to a lesser degree to the foreign currency component. For
additional information, see our Market Risk Disclosures.      The Black-Scholes model also incorporates volatility estimates that
measure potential price changes over time. The weighted average volatility used as of December 31, 2009 was approximately 22%, which was relatively unchanged from year end 2008. The weighted average volatilities are based on the volatility
input for each equity index put option contract weighted by the notional value of each equity index put option contract as compared to the aggregate notional value of all equity index put option contracts. The volatility input for each equity index
put option contract is based upon the implied volatility at the inception of each equity index put option contract. The impact on fair value as of December 31, 2009 ($7.3 billion) from changes in volatility is summarized below. The values
of contracts in an actual exchange are affected by market conditions and perceptions of the buyers and sellers. Actual values in an exchange may differ significantly from the values produced by any mathematical model. Dollars are in millions.
      
      Other Critical
Accounting Policies        We record deferred charges with respect to liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance
contracts. At the inception of these contracts, the deferred charges represent the difference between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability for unpaid losses. Deferred charges are amortized using the interest method over an
estimate of the ultimate claim payment period with the periodic amortization reflected in earnings as a component of losses and loss expenses. Deferred charge balances are adjusted periodically to reflect new projections of the amount and timing of
loss payments. Adjustments to these assumptions are applied retrospectively from the inception of the contract. Unamortized deferred charges were $4.0 billion at December 31, 2009. Significant changes in the estimated amount and payment timing
of unpaid losses may have a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization.      Our
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2009 includes goodwill of acquired businesses of approximately $34.0 billion. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually and conducted an annual review in the fourth quarter. Such tests
include determining the estimated fair value of our reporting units and performing goodwill impairment tests. There are several methods of estimating a reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, underlying asset and liability
fair value determinations and other valuation techniques, such as discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. We primarily use discounted projected future earnings or cash flow methods. The key assumptions
and inputs used in such methods may involve forecasting revenues and expenses, operating cash flows and capital expenditures as well as an appropriate discount rate. A significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair value of the
reporting unit and performing goodwill impairment tests. Due to the inherent uncertainty in forecasting cash flows and earnings, actual future results may vary significantly from the forecasts. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including
goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then individual assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities of the reporting unit are estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the
estimated fair value of net assets would establish the implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over the implied value is then charged to earnings as an impairment loss.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
    Market Risk Disclosures       Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include a substantial amount of assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks. Our
significant market risks are primarily associated with interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The fair values of our investment portfolios and equity index put option contracts remain subject to
considerable volatility, particularly over the short term. The following sections address the significant market risks associated with our business activities.        Interest Rate Risk        We regularly invest in bonds, loans or other
interest rate sensitive instruments. Our strategy is to acquire securities that are attractively priced in relation to the perceived credit risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur with respect to assets. We strive to maintain
high credit ratings so that the cost of debt is minimized. We utilize derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risks on a limited basis.      The fair values of our fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market interest rates. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest
rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values
of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. The fair values of fixed interest rate investments may be more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate investments.      The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical changes in interest rates on our assets and liabilities that are
subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed that the changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest rate risk, and that no other significant factors change that determine the value of the instrument. The
hypothetical changes in interest rates do not reflect what could be deemed best or worst case scenarios. Variations in interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of repayments due to prepayment options available. For these
reasons, actual results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.       

(1)       
      Includes other investments that are subject to a significant level of interest rate risk.
             
   56   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
     Equity Price Risk        Historically, we have maintained large amounts of invested assets in exchange traded equity securities. Strategically, we strive to invest in
businesses that possess excellent economics, with able and honest management and at sensible prices and prefer to invest a meaningful amount in each investee. Consequently, equity investments may be concentrated in relatively few investees. At
December 31, 2009, approximately 60% of the total fair value of equity investments was concentrated in five investees.      We prefer to hold equity investments for very long periods of time so we are not troubled by short-term equity price volatility with respect to our investments provided that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics
of the investees remain favorable. We strive to maintain above average levels of shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short-term equity price volatility.      Market prices for equity securities are subject to fluctuation and consequently the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment
may significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and
general market conditions.      We are also subject to equity price risk with respect to our equity index put option contracts.
While our ultimate potential loss with respect to these contracts is determined from the movement of the underlying stock index between contract inception date and expiration, the change in fair value resulting from current changes in the index
values are also affected by changes in other factors such as interest rates, expected dividend rates and the remaining duration of the contract. These contracts generally expire 15 to 20 years from inception and may not be settled before their
respective expiration dates.      The following table summarizes our equity investments and derivative contract liabilities with
equity price risk as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those dates is also shown. The selected 30% hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered
the best or worst case scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in our equity investment portfolio. Dollar amounts are in millions.       

(1)       
      Includes other investments that possess significant equity price risk. Excludes investments
accounted for under the equity method.             Foreign Currency Risk        We generally do not use derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency price changes primarily because of the natural hedging that occurs
between assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies in the consolidated financial statements. Financial statements of subsidiaries that do not use the U.S. Dollar as their functional currency are translated into U.S. Dollars using
period-end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and weighted-average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating the financial statements of these subsidiaries are reported in accumulated other comprehensive
income. Foreign currency transaction gains or losses are included in earnings primarily as a result of the translation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities held by our U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, we hold investments in major
multinational companies that have significant foreign business and foreign currency risk of their own, such as The Coca-Cola Company.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Foreign Currency Risk    (Continued)              
   Our net assets subject to translation are primarily in our insurance and utilities and
energy businesses, and to a lesser extent in our manufacturing and services businesses. The translation impact is somewhat offset by transaction gains or losses on net reinsurance liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of certain U.S.
subsidiaries as well as the equity index put option liabilities of U.S. subsidiaries relating to contracts that would be settled in foreign currencies.        Commodity Price Risk        Through our ownership of MidAmerican, we are
subject to commodity price risk. Exposures include variations in the price of wholesale electricity that is purchased and sold, fuel costs to generate electricity and natural gas supply for regulated retail gas customers. Electricity and natural gas
prices are subject to wide price swings as demand responds to, among many other items, changing weather, limited storage, transmission and transportation constraints, and lack of alternative supplies from other areas. To mitigate a portion of the
risk, MidAmerican uses derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, options, swaps and other agreements, to effectively secure future supply or sell future production generally at fixed prices. The settled cost of these contracts is
generally recovered from customers in regulated rates. Accordingly, gains and losses associated with interim price movements on such contracts are recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities. Financial results may be negatively impacted if the
costs of wholesale electricity, fuel or natural gas are higher than what is permitted to be recovered in rates. MidAmerican also uses futures, options and swap agreements to economically hedge gas and electric commodity prices for physical delivery
to non-regulated customers. MidAmerican does not engage in a material amount of proprietary trading activities.      The table
that follows summarizes our commodity price risk on energy derivative contracts of MidAmerican as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 10% increase and a 10% decrease in forward market prices by the expected
volumes for these contracts as of that date. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case scenarios. Dollars are in millions.       
     FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS       Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document, as well as some statements in
periodic press releases and some oral statements of our officials during presentations about us, are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Act ).
Forward-looking statements include statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, that include words such as  expects,   anticipates,   intends,   plans, 
 believes,   estimates,  or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible
future Berkshire actions, which may be provided by management are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are subject to risks,
uncertainties, and assumptions about us, economic and market factors and the industries in which we do business, among other things. These statements are not guaranties of future performance and we have no specific intention to update these
statements.      Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in forward-looking statements
due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that could cause our actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market
prices of our investments in fixed maturity and equity securities, losses realized from derivative contracts, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or an act of terrorism that causes losses insured by
our insurance subsidiaries, changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in federal income tax laws, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or the industries in which we do business.   
     
   58   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         See  Market Risk Disclosures  contained in Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.        Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework , our management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.      The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009 has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears on the following page.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      February 26, 2010
        
   59   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and changes in shareholders  equity and comprehensive income for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an
opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future
periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 26, 2010         
   60   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries           
 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (dollars in millions)        
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements          
   61   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries           
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS        (dollars in millions except per share amounts)        

*   
   Average shares outstanding include average Class A common shares and average Class B common shares determined on an equivalent Class A common stock basis.
Net earnings per share attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500) of such
amount or $3.46 per share for 2009, $2.15 per share for 2008 and $5.70 per share for 2007 after giving effect to the 50-for-1 Class B stock split that became effective on January 21, 2010. See Note 19.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   62   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries           
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (dollars in millions)        
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   63   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries           
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY        AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME        (dollars in millions)        
     
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   64   

Table of Contents  

        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.
       and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        December 31, 2009  

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices          

(a)   
   Nature of operations and basis of consolidation         Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities, including property and casualty insurance and reinsurance,
utilities and energy, finance, manufacturing, service and retailing. In these notes the terms  us,   we,  or  our  refer to Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries. Further information regarding our reportable
business segments is contained in Note 22. Significant business acquisitions completed over the past three years are discussed in Note 2.      The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Berkshire consolidated with the accounts of all subsidiaries and affiliates in which we hold a controlling financial interest as
of the financial statement date. Normally a controlling financial interest reflects ownership of a majority of the voting interests. Other factors considered in determining whether a controlling financial interest is held include whether we possess
the authority to purchase or sell assets or make other operating decisions that significantly affect the entity s results of operations and whether we bear a majority of the financial risk of the entity. Intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.      In 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board established the FASB Accounting Standards Codification   (the  Codification ) as the source of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
( GAAP ) through the integration of then current accounting standards from several sources into a single source. The Codification did not affect the content or application of GAAP that was in effect and had no material impact on our
Consolidated Financial Statements. In these notes, relevant accounting principles are identified by Accounting Standards Codification number or  ASC.       As of January 1, 2009, we adopted certain provisions of ASC 810 Consolidation which require that noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority interests ) be displayed in the
balance sheet as a separate component of shareholders  equity and that net earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interests be indentified and presented in the statement of earnings. In addition, changes in ownership interests where the
parent retains a controlling interest are to be reported as transactions affecting shareholders  equity. Previously such transactions were reportable as additional investment purchases (potentially resulting in recognition of additional other
assets, including goodwill, or liabilities) or sales (potentially resulting in gains or losses). During 2009, we acquired certain noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries that resulted in a reduction to shareholders  equity attributable to
Berkshire of approximately $121 million. The reduction represents the excess of consideration paid over the previously recorded balance sheet carrying amount of the acquired noncontrolling (minority) interests.       

(b)   
   Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements         The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. In particular, estimates of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and related recoverables under reinsurance for property and casualty insurance are
subject to considerable estimation error due to the inherent uncertainty in projecting ultimate claim amounts that will be settled over many years. In addition, estimates and assumptions associated with the amortization of deferred charges
reinsurance assumed, determination of fair value of certain financial instruments and evaluation of goodwill for impairment requires considerable judgment. Actual results may differ from the estimates used in preparing our Consolidated Financial
Statements.       

(c)   
   Cash and cash equivalents         Cash equivalents consist of funds invested in U.S. Treasury Bills, money market accounts, demand deposits and other investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)            

(d)   
   Investments         We determine
the appropriate classification of investments in fixed maturity and equity securities at the acquisition date and re-evaluate the classification at each balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost, reflecting the
ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity. Trading investments are carried at fair value and include securities acquired with the intent to sell in the near term. All other securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried
at fair value with net unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.      We
utilize the equity method of accounting with respect to investments when we possess the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies of the investee. The ability to exercise significant
influence is presumed when an investor possesses more than 20% of the voting interests of the investee. This presumption may be overcome based on specific facts and circumstances that demonstrate that the ability to exercise significant influence is
restricted. We apply the equity method to investments in common stock and to other investments when such other investments possess substantially identical subordinated interests to common stock. In applying the equity method with respect to
investments previously accounted for at cost or fair value, the carrying value of the investment is adjusted on a step-by-step basis as if the equity method had been applied from the time the investment was first acquired.      In applying the equity method, we record our investment at cost and subsequently increase or decrease the carrying amount of investment by
our proportionate share of the net earnings or losses and other comprehensive income of the investee. We record dividends or other equity distributions as reductions in the carrying value of the investment. In the event that net losses of the
investee reduce the carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee are at-risk even if we have not committed to provide financial support to the investee. Such additional equity method losses, if
any, are based upon the change in our claim on the investee s book value.      Investment gains and losses arise when
investments are sold (as determined on a specific identification basis) or are other-than-temporarily impaired. If a decline in the value of an investment below cost is deemed other than temporary, the cost of the investment is written down to fair
value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. Factors considered in judging whether an impairment is other than temporary include: the financial condition, business prospects and creditworthiness of the issuer, the length of time that fair value
has been less than cost, the relative amount of the decline and our ability and intent to hold the investment until the fair value recovers.      Effective April 1, 2009, the FASB amended the provisions of ASC 320 Investments   Debt and Equity Securities relating to the recognition, measurement and presentation for other-than-temporary
impairments of debt securities and changed certain disclosure requirements. With respect to an investment in a debt security, an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized if the investor (a) intends to sell or expects to be required to sell
the debt security before amortized cost is recovered or (b) does not expect to ultimately recover the amortized cost basis even if it does not intend to sell the security. Losses under (a) are recognized in earnings. Under (b) the
credit loss component is recognized in earnings and any difference between fair value and the amortized cost basis net of the credit loss is reflected in other comprehensive income. The adoption of this amendment did not have a material impact on
our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(e)   
   Loans and finance receivables         Loans and finance receivables consist of commercial and consumer loans originated or purchased. Loans and finance receivables are stated at amortized cost based on our ability and intent to hold such loans and receivables to maturity and
are net of allowances for uncollectible accounts. Amortized cost represents acquisition cost, plus or minus origination and commitment costs paid or fees received, which together with acquisition premiums or discounts are deferred and amortized as
yield adjustments over the life of the loan.      Allowances for estimated losses from uncollectible loans are recorded when it is
probable that the counterparty will be unable to pay all amounts due according to the terms of the loan. Allowances are provided on aggregations of consumer loans with similar characteristics and terms based upon historical loss and recovery
experience, delinquency rates and current economic conditions. Provisions for loan losses are charged to earnings.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)            

(f)   
   Derivatives         We carry
derivative contracts at estimated fair value in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such balances reflect reductions permitted under master netting agreements with counterparties. The changes in fair value of derivative contracts that do
not qualify as hedging instruments for financial reporting purposes are recorded in earnings as derivative gains/losses.      Cash
collateral received from or paid to counterparties to secure derivative contract assets or liabilities is included in other liabilities or assets of finance and financial products businesses. Securities received from counterparties as collateral are
not recorded as assets and securities delivered to counterparties as collateral continue to be reflected as assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.       

(g)   
   Fair value measurements         As defined under GAAP, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market participants in the principal market or in the most advantageous market when no principal market exists.
Market participants are assumed to be independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange and not under duress. Nonperformance or credit risk is considered in determining the fair value of liabilities. Considerable judgment may be
required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, estimates of fair value presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or future market exchange.
     Effective April 1, 2009, the FASB amended ASC 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures to clarify that adjustments to
transaction prices or quoted market prices may be required in illiquid or disorderly markets in order to estimate fair value. This amendment prescribes no specific methodology for making adjustments to transaction prices or quoted prices but rather
confirms that different valuation techniques may be appropriate under the circumstances to determine the value that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction. In August 2009, the FASB issued
Accounting Standards Update 2009-05,  Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value  ( ASU 2009-05 ). ASU 2009-05 provides guidance on valuing a liability when a quoted price in an active market is not available and was effective
October 1, 2009. The adoption of the amendment to ASC 820 and ASU 2009-05 did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(h)   
   Inventories         Inventories
consist of manufactured goods and purchased goods acquired for resale. Manufactured inventory costs include raw materials, direct and indirect labor and factory overhead. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. As of December 31,
2009, approximately 40% of the total inventory cost was determined using the last-in-first-out ( LIFO ) method, 32% using the first-in-first-out ( FIFO ) method, with the remainder using the specific identification method or
average cost methods. With respect to inventories carried at LIFO cost, the aggregate difference in value between LIFO cost and cost determined under FIFO methods was $661 million and $607 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

(i)   
   Property, plant and equipment         Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. The cost of major additions and betterments are capitalized, while the cost of replacements, maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the useful lives of the
related assets are expensed as incurred. Interest over the construction period is capitalized as a component of cost of constructed assets. In addition, the cost of constructed assets of certain of our regulated utility and energy subsidiaries that
are subject to ASC 980 Regulated Operations also includes an equity allowance for funds used during construction. Also see Note 1(p).      Depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. Depreciation of assets of certain regulated utility and energy subsidiaries is provided over recovery periods
based on composite asset class lives as agreed to by regulators.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)      

(i)   
   Property, plant and equipment   (Continued)               We evaluate property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such
assets may not be recoverable or the assets are being held for sale. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, we review the asset to assess whether the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the use of the asset plus residual value from
the ultimate disposal exceeds the carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amounts, we write down the asset to the estimated present value of the expected future cash flows from use of the asset.
Impairment losses are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, except with respect to impairments of assets of certain domestic regulated utility and energy subsidiaries where impairment losses are offset by the establishment of a
regulatory asset to the extent recovery in future rates is probable.       

(j)   
   Goodwill         Goodwill
represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business acquisitions. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. Evaluating goodwill for impairment involves a two-step process. The
first step is to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. There are several methods of estimating a reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation techniques, such as
discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, a second step is performed. Under the second step, the
identifiable assets, including identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities of the reporting unit are estimated at fair value as of the current testing date. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the estimated fair
value of net assets establishes the implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded goodwill over the implied value is charged to earnings as an impairment loss. A significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair value of the
reporting unit and performing goodwill impairment tests.       

(k)   
   Revenue recognition         Insurance premiums for prospective property/casualty insurance and reinsurance and health reinsurance policies are earned in proportion to the level of protection provided. In most cases, premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over the
term of the contract with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily pro rata basis. Premiums for retroactive reinsurance property/casualty policies are earned at the inception of the contracts. Premiums for life reinsurance contracts are
earned when due. Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. Premiums are estimated with respect to certain reinsurance contracts where reports from ceding companies for the period are not contractually due until after the balance
sheet date. For contracts containing experience rating provisions, premiums are based upon estimated loss experience under the contract.      Sales revenues derive from the sales of manufactured products and goods acquired for resale. Revenues from sales are recognized upon passage of title to the customer, which generally coincides with
customer pickup, product delivery or acceptance, depending on terms of the sales arrangement.      Service revenues are recognized
as the services are performed. Services provided pursuant to a contract are either recognized over the contract period or upon completion of the elements specified in the contract depending on the terms of the contract. Revenues related to the sales
of fractional ownership interests in aircraft are recognized ratably over the term of the related management services agreement as the transfer of ownership interest in the aircraft is inseparable from the management services agreement.   
  Interest income from investments in bonds and loans is earned under the constant yield method and includes accrual of interest due under
terms of the bond or loan agreement as well as amortization of acquisition premiums and accruable discounts. In determining the constant yield for mortgage-backed securities, anticipated counterparty prepayments are estimated and evaluated
periodically. Dividends from equity securities are earned on the ex-dividend date.      Operating revenue of utilities and energy
businesses resulting from the distribution and sale of natural gas and electricity to customers is recognized when the service is rendered or the energy is delivered. Amounts recognized include unbilled as well as billed amounts. Rates charged are
generally subject to federal and state regulation or established under contractual arrangements. When preliminary rates are permitted to be billed prior to final approval by the applicable regulator, certain revenue collected may be subject to
refund and a liability for estimated refunds is accrued.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)            

(l)   
   Losses and loss adjustment expenses         Liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represent estimated claim and claim settlement costs of property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts with respect to losses that have
occurred as of the balance sheet date. The liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses are recorded at the estimated ultimate payment amounts, except that amounts arising from certain workers  compensation reinsurance business are
discounted as discussed below. Estimated ultimate payment amounts are based upon (1) individual case estimates, (2) reports of losses from policyholders and (3) estimates of incurred but not reported losses.      Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are charged to earnings after deducting amounts recovered and estimates of amounts
recoverable under reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify policyholders with respect to the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.      The estimated liabilities of workers  compensation claims assumed under certain reinsurance contracts are carried at discounted amounts.
Discounted amounts are based upon an annual discount rate of 4.5% for claims arising prior to January 1, 2003 and 1% for claims arising thereafter, consistent with discount rates used under statutory accounting principles. The periodic discount
accretion is included in earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.       

(m)   
   Deferred charges reinsurance assumed         Estimated liabilities for claims and claim costs in excess of the consideration received with respect to retroactive property and casualty reinsurance contracts that provide for indemnification of
insurance risk are established as deferred charges at inception of such contracts. Deferred charges are subsequently amortized using the interest method over the expected claim settlement periods. Changes to the estimated timing or amount of loss
payments produce changes in periodic amortization. Such changes in estimates are determined retrospectively and are included in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses in the period of the change. The unamortized balances of deferred charges
reinsurance assumed were $3,957 million and $3,923 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       

(n)   
   Insurance premium acquisition costs         Costs that vary with and are related to the issuance of insurance policies are deferred, subject to ultimate recoverability, and are charged to underwriting expenses as the related premiums are earned.
Acquisition costs consist of commissions, premium taxes, advertising and certain other costs. The recoverability of premium acquisition costs generally reflects anticipation of investment income. The unamortized balances of deferred premium
acquisition costs are included in other assets and were $1,770 million and $1,698 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       

(p)   
   Regulated utilities and energy businesses         Certain domestic energy subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in accordance with ASC 980 Regulated Operations, reflecting the economic effects from the ability to recover certain costs from
customers and the requirement to return revenues to customers in the future through the regulated rate-setting process. Accordingly, certain costs are deferred as regulatory assets and obligations are accrued as regulatory liabilities which will be
amortized over various future periods. At December 31, 2009, the Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $2,093 million in regulatory assets and $1,603 million in regulatory liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the Consolidated Balance Sheet
includes $2,156 million in regulatory assets and $1,506 million in regulatory liabilities. Regulatory assets and liabilities are components of other assets and other liabilities of utilities and energy businesses.      Regulatory assets and liabilities are continually assessed for probable future inclusion in regulatory rates by considering factors such as
applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders received by other regulated entities and the status of any pending or potential legislation. If future inclusion in regulatory rates ceases to be probable, the amount no longer probable of inclusion
in regulatory rates is charged to earnings, refunded to customers or reflected as an adjustment to rates.       

(q)   
   Foreign currency         The
accounts of our foreign-based subsidiaries are measured in most instances using the local currency of the subsidiary as the functional currency. Revenues and expenses of these businesses are generally translated into U.S.
        
   69   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)            
   
Dollars at the average exchange rate for the period. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of the reporting period. Gains or losses from translating the
financial statements of foreign-based operations are included in shareholders  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional
currency of the entity that is party to the transaction are included in earnings.       

(r)   
   Income taxes         We file a
consolidated federal income tax return in the United States. In addition, we also file income tax returns in state, local and foreign jurisdictions as applicable. Provisions for current income tax liabilities are calculated and accrued on income and
expense amounts expected to be included in the income tax returns for the current year.      Deferred income taxes are calculated
under the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are based on differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities at the current enacted tax rates. Changes in deferred income tax assets and
liabilities that are associated with components of other comprehensive income are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included as a component of income tax
expense. Changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities attributable to changes in enacted tax rates are charged or credited to income tax expense in the period of enactment. Valuation allowances are established for certain deferred tax
assets where realization is not likely.      Assets and liabilities are established for uncertain tax positions taken or positions
expected to be taken in income tax returns when such positions are judged to not meet the  more-likely-than-not  threshold based on the technical merits of the positions. Estimated interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions
are included as a component of income tax expense.       

(s)   
   Subsequent events         In May
2009, the FASB amended ASC 855 Subsequent Events to set forth general accounting and disclosure requirements for events that occur subsequent to the balance sheet date but before the company s financial statements are issued. We have evaluated
events that have occurred subsequent to December 31, 2009 as prescribed by the FASB.       

(t)   
   Accounting pronouncements to be adopted in the future         In June 2009, the FASB issued revised standards relating to securitizations and special-purpose entities. The guidance eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity ( QSPE ) and
the exemption for QSPE s from previous consolidation guidance and also modifies the derecognition criteria for transfers of financial assets. The guidance includes new criteria for determining the primary beneficiary of variable interest
entities and increases the frequency in which reassessments must be made to determine the primary beneficiary of such variable interest entities. The guidance also requires additional disclosures and is effective for financial statements issued for
fiscal periods beginning after November 15, 2009. We are evaluating the impact these changes in accounting standards will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2010-06,  Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements 
( ASU 2010-06 ). ASU 2010-06 requires disclosing separately the amount of significant transfers in and out of the Level 1 and Level 2 categories and the reasons for the transfers and it requires that Level 3 purchases, sales, issuances and
settlements activity be reported on a gross rather than a net basis. ASU 2010-06 also requires fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair
value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements for Level 2 and Level 3 measurements. These disclosures are effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the Level 3 gross reporting which is
effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2010. We do not anticipate that the adoption of ASU 2010-06 will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions         Our long-held acquisition strategy is to purchase businesses with consistent earning power, good returns on equity and able and honest management at sensible prices. We had no significant business acquisitions in 2009.      During 2008, we acquired approximately 64% of Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ), a private company owned by trusts for the benefit
of members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago, for approximately $4.8 billion in the aggregate. Marmon is an international association of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate independently within diverse business
sectors. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, we will acquire the remaining equity interests in Marmon between 2011 and 2014 for consideration to be based on the future earnings of Marmon. We also acquired several other relatively small
businesses during 2008. Consideration paid for all businesses acquired in 2008 was approximately $6.1 billion.      In 2007, we
acquired TTI, Inc., a privately held electronic components distributor headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. TTI, Inc. is a leading distributor specialist of passive, interconnect and electromechanical components. Effective April 1, 2007, we
acquired the intimate apparel business of VF Corporation. We also acquired several other relatively smaller businesses during 2007. Consideration paid for all businesses acquired in 2007 was approximately $1.6 billion.       

(3)   
   Acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation         On February 12, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation ( BNSF ) that we did not already own (about 264.5 million shares
or 77.5%) for a combination of cash and Berkshire stock consideration of $100 per BNSF share. On that date, BNSF became a wholly-owned subsidiary. BNSF is based in Fort Worth, Texas and operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America
with approximately 32,000 route miles of track in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. The aggregate consideration paid of $26.5 billion consisted of cash of approximately $15.9 billion with the remainder in Berkshire Class A and B stock
(about 95,000 shares on an equivalent Class A basis). Approximately 50% of the cash component was funded with existing cash balances and the remaining 50% was funded with the proceeds from newly issued debt.      At December 31, 2009, we already owned 76.8 million shares of BNSF (22.5% of the outstanding shares), which were acquired over
time beginning in 2006, and we accounted for those shares pursuant to the equity method. See Note 6. As of December 31, 2009, our investment in BNSF had a carrying value of $6.6 billion. Upon completion of the acquisition of the remaining BNSF
shares, as required under ASC 805 Business Combinations, we will re-measure our previously owned investment in BNSF at fair value (approximately $7.7 billion based upon the market price of the BNSF stock at the acquisition date). In the first
quarter of 2010, we will record a one-time holding gain of approximately $1.1 billion for the difference between the fair value and our carrying value immediately prior to the acquisition date.      We will account for the BNSF transaction pursuant to the acquisition method. Due to the relatively short period of time between the BNSF
acquisition date and the date our Consolidated Financial Statements were issued, and given that our evaluations of the fair values of certain significant assets and liabilities of BNSF as of the acquisition date are not sufficiently completed, it is
impracticable for us to disclose the allocation of the aggregate purchase price to the assets and liabilities of BNSF at this time. Since the pro forma statement of earnings data is dependent on the purchase price allocation, we are also unable to
provide pro forma information for the year ending December 31, 2009 at this time. We expect to include these disclosures in our interim Consolidated Financial Statements for the period ending March 31, 2010.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(4)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities         Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are summarized below (in millions).       
     
    The amortized cost and estimated fair value of securities with fixed maturities at
December 31, 2009 are summarized below by contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers of certain of the securities retain early call or prepayment rights. Amounts are in millions.

72   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(5)   
   Investments in equity securities         Investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are summarized below (in millions).       

*   
   Included in Other assets.             Unrealized losses at December 31, 2009 included $1,864 million related to securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for
12 months or more. Approximately 90% of the gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2009 were concentrated in four issuers. We use no bright-line test in determining whether impairments are temporary or other than temporary. We consider several
factors in determining other-than-temporary impairment losses including the current and expected long-term business prospects of the issuer, the length of time and relative magnitude of the price decline and our ability and intent to hold the
investment until the price recovers. In our judgment, the future earnings potential and underlying business economics of these companies are favorable and we possess the ability and intent to hold these securities until their prices recover.
Changing market conditions and other facts and circumstances may change the business prospects of these issuers as well as our ability and intent to hold these securities until the prices recover. Accordingly, other-than-temporary impairment charges
may be recorded in future periods with respect to one or more of these securities.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(6)   
   Other Investments         A
summary of other investments follows (in millions).       
    Fixed maturity and equity investments in the preceding
table include our investments in The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS ) and The General Electric Company ( GE ), which were acquired in 2008 and investments in Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. ( Swiss Re ) and The Dow
Chemical Company ( Dow ) that were made in 2009. In addition, fixed maturity and equity investments include investments in Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company ( Wrigley ) that we acquired in both 2008 and 2009. Additional information
regarding these investments follows.      We own 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of GS ( GS
Preferred ) and Warrants to purchase 43,478,260 shares of common stock of GS ( GS Warrants ) which were acquired for a combined cost of $5 billion. The GS Preferred may be redeemed at any time by GS at a price of $110,000 per share
($5.5 billion in aggregate). The GS Warrants expire in 2013 and can be exercised for an additional aggregate cost of $5 billion ($115/share). We also own 30,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of GE ( GE Preferred ) and
Warrants to purchase 134,831,460 shares of common stock of GE ( GE Warrants ) which were acquired for a combined cost of $3 billion. The GE Preferred may be redeemed by GE beginning in October 2011 at a price of $110,000 per share ($3.3
billion in aggregate). The GE Warrants expire in 2013 and can be exercised for an additional aggregate cost of $3 billion ($22.25/share).      We own $4.4 billion par amount of 11.45% subordinated notes due 2018 of Wrigley ( Wrigley Notes ) and $2.1 billion of 5% preferred stock of Wrigley ( Wrigley Preferred ). The Wrigley
Notes and Wrigley Preferred were acquired in 2008 in connection with Mars, Incorporated s acquisition of Wrigley. During 2009, we also acquired $1.0 billion par amount of Wrigley senior notes due in 2013 and 2014. The Wrigley subordinated and
senior notes are classified as held-to-maturity and accordingly we are carrying such investments at cost.      On March 23,
2009, we acquired a 12% convertible perpetual capital instrument issued by Swiss Re at a cost of $2.7 billion. The instrument has a face amount of 3 billion Swiss Francs ( CHF ) and has no maturity or mandatory redemption date but can
be redeemed under certain conditions at the option of Swiss Re at 140% of the face amount until March 23, 2011 and thereafter at 120% of the face amount. The instrument possesses no voting rights and is subordinated to senior securities of
Swiss Re as defined in the agreement. Beginning on March 23, 2012, the instrument can be converted at our option into 120,000,000 common shares of Swiss Re (a rate of 25 CHF per share of Swiss Re common stock).      On April 1, 2009, we acquired 3,000,000 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of Dow ( Dow
Preferred ) for a cost of $3 billion. The Dow Preferred was issued in connection with Dow s acquisition of the Rohm and Haas Company. Under certain conditions, each share of the Dow Preferred is convertible into 24.201 shares of Dow
        
   74   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(6)   
   Other Investments   (Continued)              
   
common stock. Beginning in April 2014, if Dow s common stock price exceeds $53.72 per share for any 20 trading days in a consecutive 30-day window, Dow, at its option, at any time, in whole
or in part, may convert the Dow Preferred into Dow common stock at the then applicable conversion rate. The Dow Preferred is entitled to dividends at a rate of 8.5% per annum.      As of December 31, 2008, equity method investments included Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation ( BNSF ) and
Moody s Corporation ( Moody s ). During the fourth quarter of 2008, our investment in common stock and our related voting interest in each of these companies exceeded 20%. Accordingly, we adopted the equity method of accounting
with respect to these investments as of December 31, 2008. Prior to December 31, 2008, these investments were accounted for as available-for-sale equity securities and recorded in our financial statements at fair value. The cumulative
effect of adopting the equity method with respect to the investments in BNSF and Moody s was recorded in our financial statements as of December 31, 2008. Prior years  financial statements were not restated due to immateriality.
     As of December 31, 2009, we owned 22.5% of BNSF s outstanding common stock. See Note 3 for additional information
regarding our acquisition of BNSF on February 12, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, our equity in net assets of BNSF was $2,884 million and the excess of our carrying value over our equity in net assets of BNSF was $3,702 million.   
  During the third quarter of 2009, we sold shares of Moody s common stock, which reduced our ownership and voting interest to less
than 20%. As a result, we discontinued the use of the equity method with respect to our investment in Moody s as of the beginning of the third quarter. As of December 31, 2009, our remaining investment in Moody s common stock is
carried at fair value and included as a component of equity securities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This change did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(7)   
   Investment gains/losses         Investment gains/losses are summarized below (in millions).       
    Net investment gains/losses are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as follows.   

75   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(8)   
   Receivables         Receivables
of insurance and other businesses are comprised of the following (in millions).       
    Loans and finance receivables of finance and financial products businesses are comprised of the following
(in millions).       
    Allowances for uncollectible loans primarily relate to consumer installment loans. Provisions for consumer
loan losses were $380 million in 2009 and $305 million in 2008. Loan charge-offs were $335 million in 2009 and $215 million in 2008. Consumer loan amounts are net of acquisition discounts of $594 million at December 31, 2009 and $684 million at
December 31, 2008.       

(9)   
   Inventories         Inventories
are comprised of the following (in millions).       
     
    A
reconciliation of the change in the carrying value of goodwill is as follows (in millions).       
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(11)   
   Property, plant and equipment         Property, plant and equipment of our insurance and other businesses is comprised of the following (in millions).       
    Assets held for lease consist primarily of railroad tank cars, intermodal tank containers and other
equipment in the transportation and equipment services businesses of Marmon. As of December 31, 2009, the minimum future lease rentals to be received on the equipment lease fleet (including rail cars leased from others) were as follows (in
millions): 2010   $597; 2011   $458; 2012   $329; 2013   $216; 2014   $133; and thereafter   $291.      Property, plant and equipment of utilities and energy businesses is comprised of the following (in millions).       
    The utility generation, distribution and transmission system and interstate pipeline assets are the
regulated assets of public utility and natural gas pipeline subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, accumulated depreciation and amortization related to regulated assets was $13.3 billion and $12.5 billion, respectively. Substantially all
of the construction in progress at December 31, 2009 and 2008 related to the construction of regulated assets.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(12)   
   Derivative contracts         We
enter into derivative contracts primarily through our finance and financial products businesses and our energy and utilities businesses. The derivative contracts of our finance and financial products businesses, with limited exceptions, are not
designated as hedges for financial reporting purposes. These contracts were initially entered into with the expectation that the premiums received would exceed the amounts ultimately paid to counterparties. Changes in the fair values of such
contracts are reported in earnings as derivative gains/losses. A summary of derivative contracts of our finance and financial products businesses follows (in millions).       

(1)       
      Represents the aggregate undiscounted amount payable at the contract expiration dates assuming
that the value of each index is zero at the contract expiration date.            

(2)       
      Represents the maximum undiscounted future value of losses payable under the contracts, assuming
a sufficient number of credit defaults occur. The number of losses required to exhaust contract limits under substantially all of the contracts is dependent on the loss recovery rate related to the specific obligor at the time of the default.

(3)       
      Included in Other assets of finance and financial products businesses.
          A summary of derivative gains/losses included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings are as
follows (in millions).       
    From 2004 until the first quarter of 2008, we wrote equity index put option contracts on four major equity
indexes including three indexes outside of the United States. These contracts are European style options and will be settled on the contract expiration dates, which occur between June 2018 and January 2028. Future payments, if any, under these
contracts will be required if the underlying index value is below the strike price at the contract expiration dates. We received the premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates and therefore we have no counterparty credit
risk.      At December 31, 2009, the aggregate intrinsic value (the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled
on their future expiration dates based on the December 31, 2009 index values) was approximately $4.6 billion. However, these contracts may not be terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates and therefore the ultimate amount of cash
basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be known for many years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately 11.5 years at December 31, 2009.      In 2009, we agreed with certain counterparties to amend six of the equity index put option contracts. The amendments reduced the related
contract expiration dates between 3.5 and 9.5 years and reduced the strike prices of those contracts between 29% and 39%. In addition, the aggregate notional value related to three of the amended contracts increased by approximately $161 million. No
consideration was paid by either party with respect to these amendments. Other changes in notional amounts also occur from period to period because of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.         
   78   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(12)   
   Derivative contracts   (Continued)              
   Our credit default contracts pertain to various indexes of high yield corporate issuers,
state/municipal debt issuers and individual corporate issuers. These contracts cover the loss in value of specified debt obligations of the issuers arising from default events, which are usually for non-payment or bankruptcy. Loss amounts are
subject to contract limits.      The high yield indexes are comprised of specified North American corporate issuers (usually 100
in number) whose obligations are rated below investment grade. The weighted average contract life of contracts in-force at December 31, 2009 was approximately 2 years. State and municipality contracts are comprised of over 500 state and
municipality issuers and had a weighted average contract life at December 31, 2009 of approximately 11 years. Potential obligations related to approximately 50% of the notional amount of the state and municipality contracts cannot be settled
before the maturity dates of the underlying obligations, which range from 2019 to 2054.      Premiums on the high yield index and
state/municipality contracts are received in full at the inception dates of the contracts and, as a result, we have no counterparty credit risk. Our payment obligations under certain of these contracts are on a first loss basis. Several other
contracts are subject to aggregate loss deductibles that must be satisfied before we have any payment obligations.      We also
wrote credit default contracts on individual corporate issuers primarily related to investment grade obligations. Installment premiums are due from counterparties over the terms of the contracts. In most instances, premiums are due from
counterparties on a quarterly basis. As of December 31, 2009, all of the in-force individual corporate issuer contracts expire in 2013.      With limited exceptions, our equity index put option and credit default contracts contain no collateral posting requirements with respect to changes in either the fair value or intrinsic value of the
contracts and/or a downgrade of Berkshire s credit ratings. Under certain conditions, a few contracts require that we post collateral. As of December 31, 2009, our collateral posting requirement under such contracts was $35 million
compared to about $550 million at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, had Berkshire s credit ratings (currently AA+ from Standard   Poor s and Aa2 from Moody s) been downgraded below either A- by
Standard   Poor s or A3 by Moody s an additional $1.1 billion would have been required to be posted as collateral.      We are also exposed to variations in the market prices in the purchases and sales of natural gas and electricity and in commodity fuel costs through our regulated utility operations. Derivative instruments, including forward purchases and
sales, futures, swaps and options are used to manage these commodity price risks. Unrealized gains and losses under these contracts are either probable of recovery through rates and therefore are recorded as a regulatory net asset or liability or
are accounted for as cash flow hedges and therefore are recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Derivative contract assets included in other assets of utilities and energy businesses were $188 million and $324 million as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Derivative contract liabilities included in accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities of utilities and energy businesses were $581 million and $729 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(13)   
   Supplemental cash flow information         A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years ending December 31, 2009 is presented in the following table (in millions).       

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses         The liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon estimates of the ultimate claim costs associated with property and casualty claim occurrences as of the balance sheet dates
including estimates for incurred but not reported ( IBNR ) claims. Considerable judgment is required to evaluate claims and establish estimated claim liabilities.      A reconciliation of the changes in liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of our property/casualty insurance
subsidiaries is as follows (in millions).       
    Incurred losses  prior accident years  reflects the amount of estimation error charged or credited
to earnings in each calendar year with respect to the liabilities established as of the beginning of that year. We reduced the beginning of the year net losses and loss adjustment expenses liability by $1,507 million in 2009, $1,690 million in 2008
and $1,793 million in 2007, which excludes the effects of prior years  discount accretion and deferred charge amortization referred to below. In each year, the reductions in loss estimates for occurrences in prior years were primarily due to
lower than expected severities and frequencies on reported and settled claims in primary private passenger and commercial auto lines and lower than expected reported reinsurance losses in both property and casualty lines. Accident year loss
estimates are regularly adjusted to consider emerging loss development patterns of prior years  losses, whether favorable or unfavorable.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)            
  
   Incurred losses for prior accident years also include amortization of deferred charges
related to retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior to the beginning of the year and the accretion of the net discounts recorded on certain workers  compensation loss reserves. Amortization charges included in prior accident
years  losses were $504 million in 2009, $451 million in 2008 and $213 million in 2007. Net discounted workers  compensation liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $2,356 million and $2,403 million, respectively, reflecting
net discounts of $2,473 million and $2,616 million, respectively. The accretion of discounted liabilities related to prior years  incurred losses was approximately $98 million in 2009, $99 million in 2008 and $102 million in 2007.   
  We are exposed to environmental, asbestos and other latent injury claims arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts. Loss reserve
estimates for environmental and asbestos exposures include case basis reserves and also reflect reserves for legal and other loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are determined based upon our historic general liability exposure
base and policy language, previous environmental loss experience and the assessment of current trends of environmental law, environmental cleanup costs, asbestos liability law and judgmental settlements of asbestos liabilities.      The liabilities for environmental, asbestos and latent injury claims and claims expenses net of reinsurance recoverables were approximately
$10.6 billion at December 31, 2009 and $10.7 billion at December 31, 2008. These liabilities included approximately $9.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and $9.2 billion at December 31, 2008 of liabilities assumed under
retroactive reinsurance contracts. Liabilities arising from retroactive contracts with exposure to claims of this nature are generally subject to aggregate policy limits. Thus, our exposure to environmental and latent injury claims under these
contracts is, likewise, limited. We monitor evolving case law and its effect on environmental and latent injury claims. Changing government regulations, newly identified toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of liability, new contract
interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in these liabilities. Such development could be material to our results of operations. It is not possible to reliably estimate the amount of additional net loss or the range of
net loss that is reasonably possible.      In 2007, we entered into a reinsurance agreement with Equitas, a London based entity
established to reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years  non-life insurance and reinsurance liabilities of the Names or Underwriters at Lloyd s of London. Under the agreement as amended, we have agreed to provide up to $7 billion of
reinsurance to Equitas in excess of its undiscounted loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves as of March 31, 2006. The agreement requires that we pay all claims and related costs that arise from the underlying insurance and
reinsurance contracts of Equitas, subject to the aforementioned excess limit of indemnification. A significant amount of loss exposure associated with Equitas is related to asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims.       

(15)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings         Notes payable and other borrowings are summarized below (in millions).       
    Debt issued or guaranteed by Berkshire includes
short-term borrowings of $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2008. In February 2010, Berkshire issued $8.0 billion aggregate par amount of senior notes consisting of $2.0 billion par amount of floating
rate notes due in 2011; $1.1 billion par amount of floating rate notes due in 2012; $1.2 billion par amount of floating rate notes due in 2013; $600 million par amount of 1.4% notes due in 2012; $1.4 billion par amount of 2.125% notes due in 2013;
and $1.7 billion par amount of 3.2% notes due in 2015. These notes were issued in connection with the BNSF acquisition.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(15)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings   (Continued)              

    MidAmerican senior debt is unsecured and has a weighted
average interest rate of about 6.2% as of December 31, 2009. Subsidiary debt of utilities and energy businesses represents amounts issued by subsidiaries of MidAmerican pursuant to separate financing agreements and has a weighted average
interest rate of about 6% as of December 31, 2009. All or substantially all of the assets of certain MidAmerican subsidiaries are or may be pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise secure the debt. These borrowing arrangements generally
contain various covenants including, but not limited to, leverage ratios, interest coverage ratios and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2009, MidAmerican and its subsidiaries were in compliance with all applicable covenants.
      
    BHFC is a 100% owned finance subsidiary of Berkshire,
which has fully and unconditionally guaranteed its securities. Debt issued by BHFC matures between 2010 and 2018 and has a weighted average interest rate of approximately 4.2% as of December 31, 2009. In January 2010, BHFC issued $1 billion par
amount of senior notes consisting of $750 million par of 5.75% notes due in 2040 and $250 million par of floating rate notes due in 2012. In January 2010, BHFC repaid $1.5 billion par amount of senior notes that matured.      Our subsidiaries have approximately $4.7 billion of available unused lines of credit and commercial paper capacity in the aggregate to
support our short-term borrowing programs and provide additional liquidity. Generally, Berkshire s guarantee of a subsidiary s debt obligation is an absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due
of all present and future payment obligations of the issuer.      Principal payments expected during the next five years are as
follows (in millions).       

*  
   The amounts in the table above exclude amounts that will be repaid with respect to the $8 billion aggregate par amount of senior notes due between 2011 and 2015 that
we issued subsequent to December 31, 2009 in connection with the BNSF acquisition.            
   82   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

    The
liability for income taxes as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 as reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in millions).       
    The tax effects of temporary differences that give
rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 are shown below (in millions).       
    We have not established deferred income taxes with respect to undistributed earnings of certain foreign
subsidiaries. Earnings expected to remain reinvested indefinitely were approximately $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2009. Upon distribution as dividends or otherwise, such amounts would be subject to taxation in the United States as well as
foreign countries. However, U.S. income tax liabilities could be offset, in whole or in part, by tax credits allowable from taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions. Determination of the potential net tax due is impracticable due to the complexities of
hypothetical calculations involving uncertain timing and amounts of taxable income and the effects of multiple taxing jurisdictions.      The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes as shown below (in millions).       
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(16)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)              
   Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the U.S.
federal statutory rate in the table shown below (in millions).       

*  
   Relates to adjustments made to deferred income tax assets and liabilities in 2007 upon the enactment of reductions to corporate income tax rates in the United
Kingdom and Germany.          We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state, local
and foreign jurisdictions. We are under examination by the taxing authorities in many of these jurisdictions. With few exceptions, we have settled tax return liabilities with U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities for years before
1999. Berkshire and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) resolved all proposed adjustments for the 1999 through 2001 tax years at the IRS Appeals Division and are awaiting Joint Committee on Taxation approval. The IRS has completed
its examination of the consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2002 through 2006 tax years and the proposed adjustments are currently being reviewed in the IRS appeals process. The IRS is currently auditing our consolidated U.S. federal
income tax returns for the 2007 and 2008 tax years. While it is reasonably possible that certain of the income tax examinations will be settled within the next twelve months, we currently believe that there are no jurisdictions in which the outcome
of unresolved issues or claims is likely to be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      At December 31, 2009
and 2008, net unrecognized tax benefits were $926 million and $803 million, respectively. Included in the balance at December 31, 2009, are approximately $700 million of tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate.
The remaining balance in net unrecognized tax benefits principally relates to tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of
deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period. As
of December 31, 2009, we do not expect any material changes to the estimated amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months.       

(17)   
   Dividend restrictions   Insurance subsidiaries         Payments of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior regulatory approval, our principal insurance subsidiaries may declare up to
approximately $7 billion as ordinary dividends before the end of 2010.      Combined shareholders  equity of U.S. based
property/casualty insurance subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately $64 billion at December 31, 2009 and $51 billion at December 31, 2008. Statutory
surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the basis of GAAP. The major differences between statutory basis accounting and GAAP are that deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition costs, unrealized gains and
losses on investments in fixed maturity securities and related deferred income taxes are recognized under GAAP but not for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, statutory accounting for goodwill of acquired businesses requires amortization of
goodwill over 10 years, whereas under GAAP, goodwill is not amortized and is subject to periodic tests for impairment.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(18)   
   Fair value measurements         The estimated fair values of our financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are shown in the following table (in millions). The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable,
accruals and other liabilities are deemed to be reasonable estimates of their fair values.       

(1 )     
     Included in Other assets           

(2        )      
     Included in Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities          Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants as of the measurement date. Fair value measurements assume the asset or liability is exchanged in an orderly manner; the exchange is in the principal market for that asset or liability (or in the most advantageous market when no
principal market exists); and the market participants are independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange.      Fair values for substantially all of our financial instruments were measured using market or income approaches. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the
estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in an actual current market exchange. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated
fair value.      The hierarchy for measuring fair value consists of Levels 1 through 3.       Level 1    Inputs represent unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged in active markets.
Substantially all of our equity investments are traded on an exchange in active markets and fair value is based on the closing prices as of the balance sheet date.       Level 2    Inputs include directly or indirectly observable inputs (other than Level 1 inputs) such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities exchanged in active or inactive markets;
quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged in inactive markets; other inputs that may be considered in fair value determinations of the assets or liabilities, such as interest rates and yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds,
loss severities, credit risks and default rates; and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means. Fair values for our investments in fixed maturity securities are primarily based
on market prices and market data available for instruments with similar characteristics. Pricing evaluations are based on yield curves for instruments with similar characteristics, such as credit rating, estimated duration, and yields for other
instruments of the issuer or entities in the same industry sector.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(18)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
    Level 3    Inputs include unobservable inputs used in the measurement of
assets and liabilities. Management is required to use its own assumptions regarding unobservable inputs because there is little, if any, market activity in the assets or liabilities or related observable inputs that can be corroborated at the
measurement date. Unobservable inputs require management to make certain projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market participants in pricing assets or liabilities. Measurements of non-exchange traded derivative
contracts and certain other investments carried at fair value are based primarily on valuation models, discounted cash flow models or other valuation techniques that are believed to be used by market participants. We value equity index put option
contracts based on the Black-Scholes option valuation model which we believe is widely used by market participants. Inputs to this model include current index price, expected volatility, dividend and interest rates and contract duration. Credit
default contracts are primarily valued based on indications of bid or offer data as of the balance sheet date. These contracts are not exchange traded and certain of the terms of our contracts are not standard in derivatives markets. For example, we
are not required to post collateral under most of our contracts. For these reasons, we classified these contracts as Level 3.      Financial assets and liabilities measured and carried at fair value on a recurring basis in our financial statements as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are summarized according to the hierarchy previously described as
follows (in millions).       
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(18)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
   Reconciliations of assets and liabilities measured and carried at fair value on a
recurring basis with the use of significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 follow (in millions).       

*   
   Gains and losses related to changes in valuations are included in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings as components of investment gains/losses, derivative
gains/losses or other revenues as appropriate. Substantially all of the gains and losses included in earnings were related to derivative contract liabilities.          
    On
January 20, 2010, our shareholders approved proposals to increase the authorized number of Class B common shares from 55,000,000 to 3,225,000,000 and to effect a 50-for-1 split of the Class B common stock which became effective on
January 21, 2010. The Class A common stock was not split. Thereafter, each share of Class A common stock became convertible, at the option of the holder, into 1,500 shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is not
convertible into Class A common stock. The Class B share data in the following table and the related disclosures regarding Class B shares are presented on a post-split basis for all periods.      Changes in issued and outstanding Berkshire common stock during the three years ended December 31, 2009 are shown in the table below.

87   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          (19) Common stock   (Continued)            
   Class B common stock possesses dividend and distribution rights equal to
one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500) of such rights of Class A common stock. Each Class A common share is entitled to one vote per share. Each Class B common share possesses voting rights equivalent to one-ten-thousandth (1/10,000) of
the voting rights of a Class A share. Unless otherwise required under Delaware General Corporation Law, Class A and Class B common shares vote as a single class.      On an equivalent Class A common stock basis, there were 1,551,749 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 1,549,234 shares
outstanding as of December 31, 2008. The Class B stock split had no effect on the number of equivalent Class A common shares outstanding. In addition to our common stock, we have 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized, none of
which are issued and outstanding.       
    Several of
our subsidiaries individually sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees. Benefits under the plans are generally based on years of service and compensation, although benefits under certain plans are based on years of service
and fixed benefit rates. Contributions to the plans are made, generally, to meet regulatory requirements. Additional amounts may be contributed as determined by management based on actuarial valuations.      The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years ending December 31, 2009 are as follows (in millions).
      
    The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based on service and
compensation prior to the valuation date. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the accumulated benefit obligation was $7,379 million and $6,693 million, respectively. The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits
earned based upon service and compensation prior to the valuation date and, if applicable, includes assumptions regarding future compensation levels. Information regarding the projected benefit obligations is shown in the table that follows (in
millions).       
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(20)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)              
   Benefit obligations under qualified U.S. defined benefit plans are funded through assets
held in trusts and are not included as assets in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension obligations under certain non-U.S. plans and non-qualified U.S. plans are unfunded. As of December 31, 2009, projected benefit obligations of
non-qualified U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans which are not funded through assets held in trusts were $653 million. A reconciliation of the changes in plan assets and a summary of plan assets held as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 is presented in
the table that follows (in millions).       
    Fair value measurements for pension assets as of
December 31, 2009 follow (in millions).       
    Refer to Note 18 for a discussion of the three levels
in the hierarchy of fair values. Pension assets measured at fair value with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31, 2009 consisted primarily of real estate and limited partnership interests.      Pension plan assets are generally invested with the long-term objective of earning sufficient amounts to cover expected benefit obligations,
while assuming a prudent level of risk. There are no target investment allocation percentages with respect to individual or categories of investments. Allocations may change as a result of changing market conditions and investment opportunities. The
expected rates of return on plan assets reflect subjective assessments of expected invested asset returns over a period of several years. Generally, past investment returns are not given significant consideration when establishing assumptions for
expected long-term rates of returns on plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed rates.      The defined benefit
plans expect to pay benefits to participants over the next ten years, reflecting expected future service as appropriate, as follows (in millions): 2010   $418; 2011   $429; 2012   $449; 2013   $469; 2014   $484; and
2015 to 2019   $2,599. Sponsoring subsidiaries expect to contribute $284 million to defined benefit pension plans in 2010.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          (20) Pension plans   (Continued)            
   As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the net funded status of the plans is summarized
in the table that follows (in millions).       
    A reconciliation of amounts not yet recognized in net periodic benefit expense for the years ending
December 31, 2009 and 2008 follows (in millions).       

*  
   Includes $72 million that is expected to be included in net periodic pension expense in 2010.          Weighted average interest rate assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations were as follows. These rates are substantially
the same as the weighted average rates used in determining the net periodic pension expense.       
    Several
of our subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement plans, such as 401(k) or profit sharing plans. Employee contributions to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan provisions. Several of the plans require
that the subsidiary match these contributions up to levels specified in the plans and provide for additional discretionary contributions as determined by management. The total expenses related to employer contributions for these plans were $540
million, $519 million and $506 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       

(21)   
   Contingencies and Commitments         We are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect our insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly
through insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material
effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties in substantial
amounts.       

a)  
   Governmental Investigations          On January 19, 2010, General Re Corporation ( General Re ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire ), entered into settlements with the U.S. Department of Justice (the  DOJ ) and
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ) related to the investigations of non-traditional products previously disclosed by Berkshire. Berkshire, General Re and certain of Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries had been fully
cooperating in these investigations since General Re originally received subpoenas in January 2005.      As part of the
settlements, General Re entered into a non-prosecution agreement (the  Non-Prosecution Agreement ) with the DOJ. Under the terms of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, among other things, the DOJ has agreed not to prosecute General Re for any
crimes committed by General Re relating to General Re s previously disclosed transaction with American
        
   90   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(21)   
   Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)              
   
International Group, Inc. ( AIG ) initially effected in 2000 (the  AIG Transaction ), and General Re has paid a monetary amount equal to $19.5 million to the United States.
The Non-Prosecution Agreement provides that General Re s agreement to pay $60.5 million, exclusive of attorneys  fees and expenses, through the pending civil class action settlement with AIG shareholders more fully described below, when
combined with the amounts to be paid by AIG and the other defendants, satisfies restitution with regard to the AIG Transaction. General Re also has agreed to continue to cooperate fully with the DOJ and the SEC in any ongoing investigations of
individuals who may have been involved with the AIG Transaction. The Non-Prosecution Agreement acknowledges that General Re has instituted a number of internal corporate remediation measures applicable to itself and its subsidiaries and, under the
terms of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, General Re has agreed to maintain such remediation measures at least during the three-year term thereof. General Re has also agreed to toll the statute of limitations for the term of the Non-Prosecution
Agreement on crimes related to the AIG Transaction, and that neither it nor its directors, executive officers or representatives will make, cause others to make or acknowledge as true any statements inconsistent with the agreed statement of facts in
the Non-Prosecution Agreement. The Non-Prosecution Agreement provides that if the DOJ determines that General Re or any of its employees, officers or directors have failed to comply with or knowingly violated any of the provisions of the
Non-Prosecution Agreement, have provided deliberately false, incomplete or misleading information thereunder, or have violated any provision of the federal securities laws during the term of the Non-Prosecution Agreement, General Re shall thereafter
be subject to prosecution for crimes committed by and through its employees related to the AIG Transaction. The Non-Prosecution Agreement is also applicable to, and binding upon, certain subsidiaries of General Re.      In connection with the SEC settlement, which concerns the AIG transaction, as well as a separate series of interrelated transactions with
Prudential Financial, Inc. during the period 1997 through 2002, General Re is permanently enjoined from aiding and abetting any violations of the books and records and internal controls provisions of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the
Securities Act of 1934, as amended, and has paid $12.2 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest (the  SEC Amount ) to the SEC. General Re has also agreed not to take any action or make or permit any public statement denying any
allegations in the SEC s complaint or creating the impression that the complaint is without factual basis, although this obligation does not affect General Re s testimonial obligations or right to take legal or factual positions in
litigation or other legal proceedings in which the SEC is not a party. If General Re breaches this agreement, the SEC may petition to vacate the General Re judgment and restore its action against General Re. On February 8, 2010, the judge in
this matter issued an order permitting Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, which acquired Prudential Financial and claims to be entitled to the SEC Amount as a result of its own alleged damages, to file a motion to intervene in this matter and
requiring the SEC to hold the SEC Amount separate pending a resolution. If the SEC is required to turn over the SEC Amount, or a portion thereof, to Liberty Mutual, General Re could be subject to additional claims for relief from the SEC.
     The Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland is conducting a preliminary evaluation in relation to Cologne
Reinsurance Company (Dublin) Limited ( CRD ), a wholly owned subsidiary of General Re, concerning, in particular, transactions between CRD and AIG. CRD is cooperating fully with this preliminary evaluation.      Except for the ongoing investigation by the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland, we are not aware of any remaining
governmental investigations of any of our subsidiaries involving non-traditional products or related transactions.       

b)  
   Civil Litigation          Litigation Related to ROA       General Reinsurance Corporation ( General Reinsurance ), a subsidiary of
General Re, and several current and former employees, along with numerous other defendants, have been sued in thirteen federal lawsuits involving Reciprocal of America ( ROA ) and related entities. ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal
insurer and reinsurer of physician, hospital and lawyer professional liability risks. Nine are putative class actions initiated by doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased insurance through ROA or certain of its Tennessee-based risk retention
groups. These complaints seek compensatory, treble, and punitive damages in an amount plaintiffs contend is just and reasonable.      General Reinsurance is also subject to actions brought by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, the Tennessee Commissioner of Insurance, as Receiver for purposes of liquidating three Tennessee risk retention
groups, a state lawsuit filed by a Missouri-based hospital group that was removed to federal court and another state lawsuit filed by an Alabama doctor that was also removed to federal court. The first of these actions was filed in March 2003 and
additional actions
        
   91   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          (21) Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
   
were filed in April 2003 through June 2006. In the action filed by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner asserts in several of its claims that the alleged damages are believed
to exceed $200 million in the aggregate as against all defendants.      All of these cases are collectively assigned to the U.S.
District Court for the Western District of Tennessee for pretrial proceedings. General Reinsurance filed motions to dismiss all of the claims against it in these cases and, in June 2006, the court granted General Reinsurance s motion to dismiss
the complaints of the Virginia and Tennessee receivers. The court granted the Tennessee receiver leave to amend her complaint, and the Tennessee receiver filed an amended complaint on August 7, 2006. General Reinsurance has filed a motion to
dismiss the amended complaint in its entirety and that motion was granted, with the court dismissing the claim based on an alleged violation of RICO with prejudice and dismissing the state law claims without prejudice. One of the other defendants
filed a motion for the court to reconsider the dismissal of the state law claims, requesting that the court retain jurisdiction over them. That motion is pending.      The Tennessee Receiver subsequently filed three Tennessee state court actions against General Reinsurance, essentially asserting the same state law claims that had been dismissed without prejudice by the
Federal court. General Reinsurance removed those actions to Federal court, and the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation ultimately transferred these actions to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.      The Virginia receiver has moved for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to amend his complaint, which was opposed by General
Reinsurance. The court affirmed its original ruling but has given the Virginia receiver leave to amend. In September 2006, the court also dismissed the complaint filed by the Missouri-based hospital group. The Missouri-based hospital group has filed
a motion for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to file an amended complaint. General Reinsurance has filed its opposition to that motion and awaits a ruling by the court. The court has also not yet ruled on General Reinsurance s
motions to dismiss the complaints of the other plaintiffs.      General Reinsurance filed a Complaint and a motion in federal
court to compel the Tennessee and Virginia receivers to arbitrate their claims against General Reinsurance. The receivers filed motions to dismiss the Complaint. These motions are pending.      General Reinsurance has reached tentative settlements with the Virginia and Tennessee receivers as well as the Missouri-based hospital
group. If those settlements are consummated and approved, all the claims by these entities will be dismissed.       Actions
related to AIG       General Reinsurance is a defendant in In re American International Group Securities Litigation, Case
No. 04-CV-8141-(LTS), United States District Court, Southern District of New York, a putative class action (the  AIG Securities Litigation ) asserted on behalf of investors who purchased publicly-traded securities of AIG between
October 1999 and March 2005. The complaint, originally filed in April 2005, asserts various claims against AIG and certain of its officers, directors, investment banks and other parties, including Ronald Ferguson, Richard Napier and John Houldsworth
(whom the Complaint defines, together with General Reinsurance, as the  General Re Defendants ). The Complaint alleges that the General Re Defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 in connection
with the AIG Transaction. The Complaint seeks damages and other relief in unspecified amounts. General Reinsurance has answered the Complaint, denying liability and asserting various affirmative defenses. Lead plaintiffs filed a motion for class
certification on February 20, 2008. Various defendants, including General Reinsurance, have filed oppositions to class certification. On May 29, 2008, General Reinsurance filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition to that motion on June 30, 2008. The court has not ruled on that motion. The lead plaintiffs and General Reinsurance have reached agreement concerning the terms of a settlement that would resolve all claims against the General Re
Defendants in exchange for a payment by General Reinsurance of $72 million, out of which the court may award plaintiffs  counsel no more than $11.5 million in fees and reimbursement of costs, with the remaining amount of at least $60.5 million
to be distributed to purchasers of AIG securities. This settlement remains subject to court approval. On February 22, 2010, the court granted class certification with respect to claims against AIG, and denied class certification with respect to
claims against General Reinsurance. The order does not explicitly address whether the court will approve the above-described settlement.      A member of the putative class in the litigation described in the preceding paragraph has asserted similar claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson in a separate complaint, Florida State Board of
Administration v. General Re Corporation, et al., Case No. 06-CV-3967, United States District Court, Southern District of New York. The claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson closely resemble those asserted in the class action. The
complaint does not specify the amount of damages sought. General Re has
        
   92   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          (21) Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
   
answered the Complaint, denying liability and asserting various affirmative defenses. No trial date has been established. The parties are coordinating discovery and other proceedings among this
action, a similar action filed by the same plaintiff against AIG and others, the class action described in the preceding paragraph, and the shareholder derivative actions described in the next two paragraphs.      On July 27, 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Verified and Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint in In re American
International Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation, Case No. 04-CV-08406, United States District Court, Southern District of New York. The complaint, brought by several alleged shareholders of AIG, seeks damages, injunctive and declaratory relief
against various officers and directors of AIG as well as a variety of individuals and entities with whom AIG did business, relating to a wide variety of allegedly wrongful practices by AIG. The allegations relating to General Reinsurance focus on
the AIG Transaction, and the complaint purports to assert causes of action in connection with that transaction for aiding and abetting other defendants  breaches of fiduciary duty and for unjust enrichment. The complaint does not specify the
amount of damages or the nature of any other relief sought. This derivative litigation was stayed by stipulation between the plaintiffs and AIG. That stay remains in place.      In August 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and First Amended Consolidated Shareholders  Derivative Complaint in In re
American International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation, Case No. 769-N, Delaware Chancery Court. In June 2007, AIG filed an Amended Complaint in the Delaware Derivative Litigation asserting claims against two of its former
officers, but not against General Reinsurance. On September 28, 2007, AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs filed a Second Combined Amended Complaint, in which AIG asserted claims against certain of its former officers and the shareholder
plaintiffs asserted claims against a number of other defendants, including General Reinsurance and General Re. The claims asserted in the Delaware complaint are substantially similar to those asserted in the New York derivative complaint, except
that the Delaware complaint makes clear that the plaintiffs are asserting claims against both General Reinsurance and General Re. General Reinsurance and General Re filed a motion to dismiss on November 30, 2007. On July 13, 2009, the
Delaware Chancery Court entered judgment dismissing with prejudice the claims asserted against General Re, General Reinsurance and certain other defendants in the matter. Plaintiffs have appealed the judgment. General Re and General Reinsurance
are vigorously opposing that appeal.       FAI/HIH Matter       In December 2003, the Liquidators of both FAI Insurance Limited ( FAI ) and HIH Insurance Limited ( HIH ) advised General
Reinsurance Australia Limited ( GRA ) and K lnische R ckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG ( Cologne Re ) that they intended to assert claims arising from insurance transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June
1998. In August 2004, the Liquidators filed claims in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in order to avoid the expiration of a statute of limitations for certain plaintiffs. The focus of the Liquidators  allegations against GRA and Cologne Re
are the 1998 transactions GRA entered into with FAI (which was acquired by HIH in 1999). The Liquidators contend, among other things, that GRA and Cologne Re engaged in deceptive conduct that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such
transactions as reinsurance, and that such deception led to HIH s acquisition of FAI and caused various losses to FAI and HIH. The Liquidator of HIH served its Complaint on GRA and Cologne Re in June 2006 and discovery has been ongoing. The FAI
Liquidator dismissed his complaint against GRA and Cologne Re. GRA and Cologne Re have entered into a settlement in principle with the HIH Liquidator, which remains subject to court approval.      We have established reserves for certain of the legal proceedings discussed above where we have concluded that the likelihood of an
unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For other legal proceedings discussed above, either we have determined that an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but we are unable to estimate a range
of possible losses or we are unable to predict the outcome of the matter. We believe that any liability that may arise as a result of current pending civil litigation, including the matters discussed above, will not have a material effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.       

c)  
   Commitments          We lease
certain manufacturing, warehouse, retail and office facilities as well as certain equipment. Rent expense for all leases was $701 million in 2009, $725 million in 2008 and $648 million in 2007. Minimum rental payments for operating leases having
initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows. Amounts are in millions.       
       
   93   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          (21) Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
   Several of our subsidiaries have made long-term commitments to purchase goods and
services used in their businesses. The most significant of these relate to MidAmerican s commitments to purchase coal, electricity and natural gas. As of December 31, 2009, commitments under all such subsidiary arrangements were
approximately $5.6 billion in 2010, $1.9 billion in 2011, $1.8 billion in 2012, $1.7 billion in 2013, $1.7 billion in 2014 and $4.0 billion after 2014.      We are obligated to acquire the remaining 36% equity interests of Marmon in stages between 2011 and 2014. Based upon the initial purchase price, the cost to Berkshire to acquire such interests would be
approximately $2.7 billion. However, the consideration ultimately payable is contingent upon future operating results of Marmon and the per share cost could be greater than or less than the initial per share price.      Pursuant to the terms of shareholder agreements with noncontrolling shareholders in certain of our other less than wholly-owned
subsidiaries, we may be obligated to acquire their equity ownership interests. The consideration payable for such interests is generally based on the fair value of the subsidiary. If we acquired all such outstanding noncontrolling interests holdings
as of December 31, 2009, the cost would have been approximately $3 billion. However, the timing and the amount of any such future payments that might be required are contingent on future actions of the noncontrolling owners and future operating
results of the related subsidiaries.       (22) Business segment data       Our reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects how management views those business activities. Certain businesses
have been grouped together for segment reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution characteristics, even though those business units are operated under separate local management.      The tabular information that follows shows data of reportable segments reconciled to amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Intersegment transactions are not eliminated in instances where management considers those transactions in assessing the results of the respective segments. Furthermore, our management does not consider investment and derivative
gains/losses or amortization of purchase accounting adjustments in assessing the performance of reporting units. Collectively, these items are included in reconciliations of segment amounts to consolidated amounts.       

Business Identity    
      
     Business Activity     

GEICO   
      
  Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance mainly by direct response methods   

General Re   
      
  Underwriting excess-of-loss, quota-share and facultative reinsurance worldwide   

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group   
      
  Underwriting excess-of-loss and quota-share reinsurance for property and casualty insurers and reinsurers   

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group   
      
  Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty insurance policies for primarily commercial accounts   

BH Finance, Clayton Homes, XTRA, CORT and other financial services ( Finance and financial products )  
      
  Proprietary investing, manufactured housing and related consumer financing, transportation equipment leasing, furniture leasing, life annuities and risk management
products   

Marmon   
      
  An association of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate within 11 diverse business sectors   

McLane Company   
      
  Wholesale distribution of groceries and non-food items   

MidAmerican   
      
  Regulated electric and gas utility, including power generation and distribution activities in the U.S. and internationally; domestic real estate brokerage   

Shaw Industries   
      
  Manufacturing and distribution of carpet and floor coverings under a variety of brand names          
   94   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(22)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   Other businesses not specifically identified with reportable business segments consist
of a large, diverse group of manufacturing, service and retailing businesses.       

Business Identity    
      
     Business Activity     
 
    Manufacturing   
      
  Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, H.H. Brown Shoe Group, CTB, Fechheimer Brothers, Forest River, Fruit of the Loom, Garan, IMC, Johns Manville, Justin Brands, Larson-Juhl,
MiTek, Richline and Scott Fetzer   

Service   
      
  Buffalo News, Business Wire, FlightSafety, International Dairy Queen, Pampered Chef, NetJets and TTI   

Retailing   
      
  Ben Bridge Jeweler, Borsheims, Helzberg Diamond Shops, Jordan s Furniture, Nebraska Furniture Mart, See s Candies, Star Furniture and R.C.
Willey       A disaggregation of our consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is presented in the
tables which follow on this and the following two pages (in millions).       

95   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(22)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            

Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based
upon the domicile of the insured or reinsured) are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.       
    Insurance premiums written and earned in 2007 included
$7.1 billion from a single reinsurance transaction with Equitas. See Note 14 for additional information. Premiums attributable to Western Europe were primarily in Switzerland, Luxembourg and Germany. In 2009, insurance premiums earned included
approximately $4.6 billion from Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. and its affiliates.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(22)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   Consolidated sales and service revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $62.6 billion, $65.9
billion and $58.2 billion, respectively. Approximately 90% of such amounts in each year were in the United States with the remainder primarily in Canada and Europe. In 2009, consolidated sales and service revenues included $12.2 billion of sales to
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. which were primarily related to McLane s wholesale distribution business. At December 31, 2009, over 80% of our net property, plant and equipment were located in the United States with the remainder primarily in
Canada and Europe.      Premiums written and earned by the property/casualty and life/health insurance businesses are summarized
below (in millions).       
     
    A summary
of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in the following table. This information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.       

*  
   Includes investment and derivative gains/losses, which, for any given period have no predictive value and variations in amount from period to period have no
practical analytical value. Derivative gains/losses include significant amounts related to non-cash changes in the fair value of long-term contracts arising from short-term changes in equity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates, among
other factors. After-tax investment and derivative gains/losses for the periods presented above are as follows (in millions):           
       
   97   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         None       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures         At the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive
Officer) and the Senior Vice President-Treasurer (Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President-Treasurer (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material
information relating to the Corporation (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation s periodic SEC filings. The report called for by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference
to Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, included on page 59 of this report. The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm, included on page 60 of this report. There has been no change in the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         None
        Part III       Except for the information set forth under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I hereof, information required by this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by
reference from the Registrant s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on May 1, 2010, which meeting will involve the election of directors.
        
   98   

Table of Contents  

    Part IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules         (a) 1.  Financial Statements       The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included in Part II Item 8 of this report:       
    (b)  Exhibits       See the  Exhibit Index  at page 104.         
   99   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.       

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.   

Date: February 26, 2010  

/s/    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG            

Marc D. Hamburg    

Senior Vice President and    

Principal Financial Officer        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

/s/    W ARREN  E.
B UFFETT               Warren E. Buffett    
     
  Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date    

/s/    H OWARD  G.
B UFFETT               Howard G. Buffett    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    S TEPHEN  B.
B URKE               Stephen B. Burke    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    S USAN  L.
D ECKER               Susan L. Decker    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    W ILLIAM  H. G ATES 
III              William H. Gates III    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    D AVID  S.
G OTTESMAN               David S. Gottesman    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    C HARLOTTE 
G UYMAN               Charlotte Guyman    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    D ONALD  R.
K EOUGH               Donald R. Keough    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    C HARLES  T.
M UNGER               Charles T. Munger    
     
  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    T HOMAS  S.
M URPHY               Thomas S. Murphy    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    R ONALD  L.
O LSON               Ronald L. Olson    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    W ALTER  S COTT ,
J R .              Walter Scott, Jr.    
     
  Director  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG               Marc D. Hamburg    
     
  Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date

/s/    D ANIEL  J.
J AKSICH               Daniel J. Jaksich    
     
  Vice President Principal Accounting Officer  
     
    February 26, 2010     Date
           
   100   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
     To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, and have issued our report thereon dated
February 26, 2010; such consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This financial statement schedule is
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 26, 2010
        
   101   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information
       (Dollars in millions)          Schedule I        Balance Sheets        
     Statements of Earnings        
     See Note to Condensed Financial Information  
        
   102   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information
       (Dollars in millions)        Schedule I (continued)        Statements of Cash Flows        
     Note to Condensed
Financial Information       Berkshire s borrowings at December 31, 2009 and 2008 included $340 million and $244
million, respectively, from investment agreements. Principal is payable under certain conditions at par prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2009, borrowings of $173 million will mature in 2010 with the remainder maturing after 2014.
     In February 2010, Berkshire issued $8.0 billion aggregate par amount of senior notes consisting of $2.0 billion par amount of
floating rate notes due in 2011; $1.1 billion par amount of floating rate notes due in 2012; $1.2 billion par amount of floating rate notes due in 2013; $600 million par amount of 1.4% notes due in 2012; $1.4 billion par amount of 2.125% notes due
in 2013; and $1.7 billion par amount of 3.2% notes due in 2015. The proceeds from these borrowings together with approximately $3 billion of available cash were contributed to a wholly-owned subsidiary in connection with the acquisition of all
remaining outstanding shares of the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has guaranteed debt
obligations of certain of its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt guaranteed by Berkshire totaled approximately $14.5 billion. Berkshire s guarantee of subsidiary debt is an absolute, unconditional
and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment obligations. Berkshire also provides guarantees in connection with long-term equity index put option and credit default contracts entered into by a
subsidiary. The estimated fair value of liabilities recorded under such contracts was approximately $8.9 billion as of December 31, 2009. The amount of subsidiary payments under these contracts, if any, is contingent upon future events. The
timing of subsidiary payments, if any, will not be fully known until the expiration of the contracts over the next 18 years.         
   103   

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX        

Exhibit No.    

2(i)  
     
  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Registrant and General Re Corporation.   

Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.    

2(ii)  
     
  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 2, 2009 by and among Berkshire, R Acquisition Company, LLC and BNSF. Incorporated by reference to Annex A to Registration Statement
No. 333-163343 on Form S-4.   

3(i)  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation   

3(ii)  
     
  By-Laws   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed on May 8, 2007.    

4.1  
     
  Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor
to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 on Form S-4 of Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed
on February 4, 2004.    

4.2  
     
  Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2010, among Berkshire, Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Berkshire s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on February 1,
2010.    

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities authorized by all
other such instruments does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2009. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of any such debt
instrument to which it is a party.    

12  
     
  Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges   

14  
     
  Code of Ethics   

Berkshire s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on its Internet
website     at  www.berkshirehathaway.com     

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

31  
     
  Rule 13a 14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications   

32  
     
  Section 1350 Certifications   

101  
     
  The following financial information from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business
Reporting Language) includes: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and
(v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule I, tagged as blocks of text.          
   104   

<EX-3.(I)>
 2
 dex3i.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.(I)

EXHIBIT 3.(i) 

EXHIBIT 3(i)        RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF        BERKSHIRE
HATHAWAY INC.        (Originally incorporated on June 16, 1998        under the name NBH, Inc.)        FIRST : The name of the Corporation is Berkshire Hathaway Inc.       SECOND : The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware is located at No. 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation
Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801.       THIRD : The purpose of the
Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.       FOURTH : The total number of shares of all classes of stock that the Corporation is authorized to issue is 3,227,650,000, of which 1,650,000 shares shall be Class A Common Stock, 3,225,000,000
shall be Class B Common Stock, and 1,000,000 shares shall be Preferred Stock. Shares of Preferred Stock shall have no par value. Each share of Class A Common Stock shall have a par value of $5.00. Each share of Class B Common Stock shall have a
par value of $0.0033. The Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock shall sometimes hereinafter be referred to collectively as the  Common Stock.  At the effective time of the amendment adding this sentence to Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, each one (1) issued share of Class B Common Stock shall be subdivided into fifty (50) shares of Class B Common Stock.      1.  Preferred Stock . The Board of Directors is authorized, subject to limitations prescribed by law and the limitation on authorized Preferred Stock stated above in this Article FOURTH, to provide
for the issuance of shares of Preferred Stock in one or more series, and, by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in any series, and to fix
the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.      The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each series of Preferred Stock shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:      (a) The number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation of that series;         
   1   

(b) The dividend rate on the shares of that series, whether dividends shall
be cumulative, and, if so, from which date or dates and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends on shares of that series;      (c) Whether that series shall have voting rights, in addition to the class voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights;      (d) Whether that series shall have conversion privileges, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such conversion, including
provision for adjustment of the conversion rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;      (e)
Whether or not the shares of that series shall be redeemable, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption,
which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;      (f) Whether that series
shall have a sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of that series, and, if so, the terms and amount of such sinking fund;      (g) The rights of the shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of
shares of that series; and      (h) Any other absolute or relative rights, preferences or limitations of that
series.      Dividends on outstanding shares of Preferred Stock shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment before any
dividends shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment on shares of Common Stock with respect to the same dividend period.      The Preferred Stock shall be preferred over the Common Stock as to assets, and in the event of any liquidation or dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (whether voluntary or involuntary), the holders of the Preferred Stock shall be
entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its shareholders, whether from capital, surplus or earnings, the amount specified for each particular series, together with any dividends accrued or in arrears,
for every share of their holdings of Preferred Stock before any distribution of the assets shall be made to the holders of Common Stock, and shall be entitled to no other or further distribution. If upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets available for distribution to holders of shares of Preferred Stock of all series shall be insufficient to pay such holders the full preferential amount to which they are entitled, then such
assets shall be distributed ratably among the shares of all series of Preferred Stock in accordance with the respective preferential amounts (including unpaid cumulative dividends, if any, as provided by the Board of Directors) payable with respect
thereto.         
   2   

Neither the consolidation nor merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation,
nor any sale, lease, exchange or conveyance of all or any part of the property, assets or business of the Corporation shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation within the meaning of this Article FOURTH.
     2.  Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock . The powers, preferences, and rights of the Class A Common
Stock and Class B Common Stock, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, are fixed as follows:      A.  Issuance; Payment and Assessability . The shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may be issued by the Corporation from time to time for such consideration, having a value not less than par value, as may be
fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. Any and all shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock so issued for which the consideration so fixed has been paid or delivered to the Corporation shall be
deemed fully paid stock and shall not be liable to any further call or assessment thereon, and the holders of said shares shall not be liable for any further payments in respect of such shares.      B.  Dividends; Distributions; Stock Splits . Holders of Class A Common Stock shall be entitled
to such dividends or other distributions (including liquidating distributions) per share, whether in cash, in kind, in stock (including a stock split) or by any other means, when and as may be declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation
out of assets or funds of the Corporation legally available therefor. Holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to dividends or other distributions (including liquidating distributions) per share, whether in cash, in kind, in stock, or by
any other means, equal to one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500   th   ) of the amount per share declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation for each share of Class A Common Stock, (except in the case of a stock split effected by dividend or amendment to this Restated Certificate of
Incorporation, or a stock dividend of shares of Class A Common Stock to holders of Class A Common Stock and shares of Class B Common Stock to holders of Class B Common Stock, in which case holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled
to receive, on a per share basis, the number of shares of Class B Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Class A Common Stock received on a per share basis by the holders of Class A Common Stock), and such dividends or distributions
with respect to the Class B Common Stock shall be paid in the same form and at the same time as dividends or distributions with respect to the Class A Common Stock;  provided, however , that, in the event of a stock split or stock
dividend, holders of Class A Common Stock shall receive shares of Class A Common Stock and holders of Class B Common Stock shall receive shares of Class B Common Stock, unless otherwise specifically designated by resolution of the Board of
Directors. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 2.B. of Article FOURTH, the Corporation may effect a 50-for-1 stock split of only the Class B Common Stock (with no accompanying split of the Class A Common
Stock) at the effective time of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation.         
   3   

C.  Voting . Each holder of Class A Common
Stock shall be entitled to one (1) vote for each share of Class A Common Stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation. Each holder of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to one-ten-thousandth (1/10,000   th   ) of one vote for each share of Class B Common Stock standing in
his name on the books of the Corporation. Unless otherwise required by the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Class A Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock shall vote as a single class with respect to all matters submitted to a vote of
shareholders of the Corporation.      D.  Conversion . Each share of Class A Common Stock may, at the
option of the holder of record thereof and without payment of any consideration, be converted into one thousand five hundred (1,500) fully paid and nonassessable shares of Class B Common Stock. Any such conversion may be effected by any holder
of Class A Common Stock surrendering such holder s certificate or certificates for the Class A Common Stock to be converted, duly endorsed, at the office of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the Class A Common Stock,
together with a written notice to the Corporation that such holder elects to convert all or a specified whole number of shares of Class A Common Stock and stating the name or names in which such holder desires the Class B Common Stock to be
issued. If so required by the Corporation, any certificate for shares surrendered for conversion shall be accompanied by instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly executed by the holder of such shares or the duly
authorized representative of such holder. Promptly thereafter, the Corporation shall issue or cause to be issued to such holder or such holder s nominee or nominees the number of shares of Class B Common Stock to which such holder shall be
entitled as herein provided. Such conversion shall be deemed to have been made at the close of business on the date of receipt by the Corporation or any such transfer agent of such certificate or certificates for Class A Common Stock and such
notice, and the person or persons entitled to receive the Class B Common Stock issuable on such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Class B Common Stock on that date.      The issuance of shares of Class B Common Stock upon the conversion of shares of Class A Common Stock shall be made without charge to
the converting holder; provided, however, that if any certificate is to be issued in a name other than that of the record holder of the shares being converted, the Corporation shall not be required to issue or deliver any such certificate unless and
until the person requesting the issuance thereof shall have paid to the Corporation the amount of any tax that may be payable with respect to any transfer involved in the issuance and delivery of such certificate or has established to the
satisfaction of the Corporation that such tax has been paid.      The Corporation covenants that it will at all times reserve and
keep available, solely for the purpose of issuance upon conversion of the outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock, a number of shares of Class B Common Stock equal to one thousand
        
   4   

five hundred (1,500) times the number of shares of Class A Common Stock then outstanding, in addition to the number of shares of Class B Common Stock then outstanding;  provided,
however , that nothing herein shall be construed to preclude the Corporation from satisfying its obligation to issue shares of Class B Common Stock upon conversion of Class A Common Stock by delivery of purchased or redeemed shares of Class
B Common Stock which are held in the treasury of the Corporation.      E. Mergers, Consolidations,
Reclassifications and Certain Other Transactions (1) Not withstanding any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and in addition to any approval required by law or by this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and
except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 2.E.(2) of this Article FOURTH:      (i) any merger or
consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other entity; or (ii) any reclassification of securities (including any forward stock split or reverse stock split effected by amendment to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation), or
recapitalization of the Corporation, or any other transaction or series of transactions which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of increasing, as compared to the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, the proportionate number of shares
outstanding or aggregate voting power of the outstanding shares of any other class of equity securities, or any class of securities convertible into any class of equity securities, of the Corporation;      shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock.      (2) The provisions of Section 2.E.(1) of this Article FOURTH shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business
Combination shall require only such approval as is required by law or any other provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, if (i) no consideration is to be received by holders of Class A Common Stock on account of their
Class A Common Stock, no change is to be made to the terms of either the Class A Common Stock or the Class B Common Stock, and neither the Class A Common Stock nor the Class B Common Stock is to be exchanged for or converted into any
other securities or consideration or canceled, (ii) the holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are entitled to receive the same number of shares of stock (on a per share basis), consisting solely of, in the case of
holders of Class A Common Stock, either Class A Common Stock or stock with the same or equivalent powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Class A Common Stock, and, in the case of holders of
Class B Common Stock, either Class B Common Stock or stock with the same or equivalent powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions as the Class B Common Stock, or (iii) the following conditions shall have been met:
     (a) the consideration to be received by holders of Class B Common Stock shall be paid in the same form and at the same time as
that received by holders of Class A Common Stock; and         
   5   

(b) (x) the amount of cash, (y) the amount of stock, and
(z) the fair market value, as of the date (the  Consummation Date ) of the consummation of the Business Combination, of the consideration other than cash and stock (the  Other Consideration ) to be received per share by
holders of Class B Common Stock, shall respectively be at least 1/1,500   th    of the amount of cash, at least 1/1,500   th    of the amount of stock, and at least 1/1,500   th    of the fair market value (as of the applicable Consummation Date) of such Other Consideration, to be received per share by holders of Class A Common Stock.      The term  Business Combination  as used in this Article FOURTH shall mean any transaction which is referred to in clauses (i) or (ii) of
Section 2.E.(1) of this Article FOURTH.      (3) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine
compliance with this Article FOURTH, including, without limitation, (i) whether the applicable conditions set forth in Section 2.E.(1) have been met with respect to any Business Combination, and (ii) whether the amount of cash, the
amount of stock and the fair market value of the Other Consideration to be received by holders of Class B Common Stock meets the conditions set forth in Section 2.E.(2)(b).      (4) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any affirmative
vote of the holders of any particular class or series of stock required by law or this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock shall be required to
alter, amend or repeal this Section 2.E. of this Article FOURTH, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise (other than by a merger or consolidation that does not otherwise require a separate vote of the holders of Class B Common Stock
under Section 2.E.2. of this Article FOURTH).       FIFTH : The following additional provisions are in furtherance and
not limitation of any power, privilege or purpose conferred or permitted by law, this certificate or the by-laws:      1. Except
as may be otherwise expressly required by law, or the provisions of this Certificate or the by-laws, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have and may exercise, transact, manage, promote and carry on all of the powers, authorities,
businesses, objectives and purposes of the Corporation.      2. The election of directors need not be by ballot unless the by-laws
so require.      3. The Board of Directors of the Corporation is authorized and empowered to make, alter, amend and repeal the
by-laws of the Corporation in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware.      4. The Board of Directors
may fix from time to time the compensation of its members.         
   6   

5. The Corporation may indemnify or insure or both indemnify and insure any person who is or
was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or, at its request, of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, to the full extent provided or permitted by its by-laws, as from time to time amended,
and to the full extent to which those indemnified may now or hereafter be entitled under any law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.       SIXTH : No contract or other transaction between the Corporation and any other corporation, and no act of the Corporation shall in any way be affected or invalidated by the fact that any of the
directors of the Corporation are pecuniarily or otherwise interested in or are directors or officers of such other corporation. Any director individually, or any firm of which such director may be a member, may be a party to or may be pecuniarily or
otherwise interested in any contract or transaction of the Corporation, provided that the fact that he or such firm is so interested shall be disclosed or shall have been known to the Board of Directors, or a majority thereof; and any director of
the Corporation, who is also a director or officer of such other corporation, or is so interested, may be counted in determining the existence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation which shall authorize such
contract or transaction, and may vote thereat to authorize any such contract or transaction, with like force and effect, as if he were not such director or officer of such other corporation or not so interested,       SEVENTH : Any action which would otherwise be required or permitted to be taken by the vote of stockholders at a meeting thereof may
instead be taken by the written consent of stockholders who would be entitled to vote upon such action if such a meeting were held having not less than the percentage of the total number of votes which would have been required to take such action at
such a meeting.       EIGHTH : No director of this Corporation shall have personal liability to the Corporation or any of its
stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. The foregoing provision shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director (i) for any breach of the director s duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its
stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or (iv) for any
transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. In the event that the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware is amended after approval of this Article by the stockholders so as to authorize corporate action
further eliminating or limiting the liability of directors, the liability of a director of this Corporation shall thereupon be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as so
amended from time to time. The provisions of this Article shall not be deemed to limit or preclude indemnification of a director by the Corporation for any liability of a director which has not been eliminated by the provisions of this Article.
        
   7   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation which restates and
integrates, but does not further amend, the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of this Corporation, and which has been duly adopted in accordance with Section 245 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, has been executed
by its duly authorized officer this 24 day of February, 2010.       

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    

By:   
        
    /s/    Marc D. Hamburg    
 
    Name:   
        
  Marc D. Hamburg   
 
    Title:   
        
  Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer          
   8   

</EX-3.(I)>

<EX-12>
 3
 dex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

EXHIBIT 12 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 12        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges        (Dollars in millions)        

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 dex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

EXHIBIT 21 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2009        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
  Acme Brick Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Acme Building Brands, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Albecca Inc.  
      
  Georgia   
 
  Anderson Hardwood Floors LLC  
      
  Georgia   
 
  Applied Underwriters, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Ben Bridge Corporation  
      
  Washington   
 
  Ben Bridge Jeweler, Inc.  
      
  Washington   
 
  Benjamin Moore   Co.  
      
  New Jersey   
 
  Benjamin Moore   Co., Limited  
      
  Canada   
 
  Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation  
      
  New York   
 
  Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (UK)  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  BHSF, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  BH Finance LLC  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  BH Shoe Holdings, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Blue Chip Stamps  
      
  California   
 
  Boat America Corporation  
      
  Virginia   
 
  Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Bushwick Metals LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Business Wire, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  California Insurance Company  
      
  Iowa   
 
  Campbell Hausfeld/Scott Fetzer Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CE Electric UK Funding Company  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  CE Electric UK Holdings  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Central States Indemnity Co. of Omaha  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Central States of Omaha Companies, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Cerro Flow Products LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Cerro Wire LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Clayton Homes, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CMH Homes, Inc.  
      
  Tennessee   
 
  CMH Manufacturing, Inc.  
      
  Tennessee   
 
  CMH Parks, Inc.  
      
  Tennessee   
 
  Columbia Insurance Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Cornhusker Casualty Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  CORT Business Services Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  CTB International Corp.  
      
  Indiana   
 
  Cypress Insurance Company  
      
  California   
 
  EcoWater Systems LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  EXSIF Worldwide, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Fairfield Insurance Company  
      
  Connecticut   
 
  Faraday Reinsurance Co. Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Faraday Underwriting Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  The Fechheimer Brothers Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  FlightSafety International Inc.  
      
  New York   
 
  FlightSafety Services Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Forest River, Inc.  
      
  Indiana   
 
  Fruit of the Loom, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Garan, Incorporated  
      
  Virginia   
 
  GEICO Casualty Company  
      
  Maryland    

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2009        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
  GEICO Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  GEICO General Insurance Company  
      
  Maryland   
 
  GEICO Indemnity Company  
      
  Maryland   
 
  GRD Holdings Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Gen Re Intermediaries Corporation  
      
  New York   
 
  General Re Life Corporation  
      
  Connecticut   
 
  General Re Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  General Re Financial Products Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  General Reinsurance Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  General Star Indemnity Company  
      
  Connecticut   
 
  General Star National Insurance Company  
      
  Ohio   
 
  General Reinsurance Life Australia Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  General Reinsurance Africa Ltd.  
      
  South Africa   
 
  General Reinsurance Australia Ltd.  
      
  Australia   
 
  General Reinsurance UK Limited  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Genesis Indemnity Insurance Company  
      
  North Dakota   
 
  Genesis Insurance Company  
      
  Connecticut   
 
  Government Employees Insurance Company  
      
  Maryland   
 
  Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc.  
      
  Missouri   
 
  H. H. Brown Shoe Company, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Homemakers Plaza, Inc.  
      
  Iowa   
 
  HomeServices of America, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  International Dairy Queen, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V.  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  IMC Holdings GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Ingersoll Cutting Tool Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Ingersoll Maschinen Werkzeuge GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Iscar Ltd.  
      
  Israel   
 
  Johns Manville  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Johns Manville Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Johns Manville Slovakia, a.s.  
      
  Slovakia   
 
  Jordan s Furniture, Inc.  
      
  Massachusetts   
 
  Justin Brands, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Justin Industries, Inc.  
      
  Texas   
 
  The Kansas Bankers Surety Company  
      
  Kansas   
 
  Kern River Gas Transmission Company  
      
  Texas   
 
  K lnische R ckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG  
      
  Germany   
 
  KR Holding, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  L.A. Darling Company LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Larson-Juhl US LLC  
      
  Georgia   
 
  Marmon Holdings, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Marmon/Keystone LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  McLane Company, Inc.  
      
  Texas   
 
  McLane Foodservice, Inc.  
      
  Texas   
 
  The Medical Protective Company  
      
  Indiana   
 
  Medical Protective Corporation  
      
  Indiana   
 
  MHC Inc.  
      
  Iowa   
 
  MidAmerican Energy Company  
      
  Iowa    

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2009        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company  
      
  Iowa   
 
  MidAmerican Funding, LLC  
      
  Iowa   
 
  MiTek, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Mount Vernon Fire Insurance Company  
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
  National Fire   Marine Insurance Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  National Indemnity Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  National Indemnity Company of the South  
      
  Florida   
 
  National Indemnity Company of Mid-America  
      
  Iowa   
 
  National Liability   Fire Insurance Company  
      
  Connecticut   
 
  National Reinsurance Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV  
      
  Netherlands   
 
  NetJets Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  NNGC Acquisition, LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Northern Natural Gas Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Oak River Insurance Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  OBH Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  OCSAP, Ltd.  
      
  Maine   
 
  PacifiCorp  
      
  Oregon   
 
  The Pampered Chef, Ltd.  
      
  Illinois   
 
  PPW Holdings LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Precision Steel Warehouse, Inc.  
      
  Illinois   
 
  Railsplitter Holdings Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  R.C. Willey Home Furnishings  
      
  Utah   
 
  Redwood Fire and Casualty Insurance Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Richline Group, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  RSCC Wire   Cable LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Russell Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Schuller GmbH  
      
  Germany   
 
  Scott Fetzer Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  See s Candies, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  See s Candy Shops, Inc.  
      
  California   
 
  Shaw Contract Flooring Services, Inc.  
      
  Georgia   
 
  Shaw Industries Group, Inc.  
      
  Georgia   
 
  Sofft Shoe Company, Inc.  
      
  New Hampshire   
 
  Star Furniture Company  
      
  Texas   
 
  Sterling Crane LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  TaeguTec Ltd.  
      
  Korea   
 
  TTI, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Tungaloy Corporation  
      
  Japan   
 
  Unarco Industries LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Union Tank Car Company  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Union Underwear Company, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  United States Liability Insurance Company  
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
  U.S. Investment Corporation  
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
  U.S. Underwriters Insurance Company  
      
  North Dakota   
 
  Vanderbilt Mortgage   Finance, Inc.  
      
  Tennessee   
 
  Vanity Fair Brands, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Webb Wheel Products, Inc.  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Wells Lamont LLC  
      
  Delaware    

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2009        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
  Wesco Financial Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  Wesco-Financial Insurance Company  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  Wesco Holdings Midwest, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  World Book/Scott Fetzer Company, Inc.  
      
  Nebraska   
 
  XTRA Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  XTRA Finance Corporation  
      
  Delaware   
 
  XTRA Lease LLC  
      
  Delaware   
 
  XTRA LLC  
      
  Maine   
 
  Yorkshire Electricity Distribution PLC.  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Yorkshire Electricity Group PLC  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Yorkshire Holdings PLC  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
  Yorkshire Power Group Limited  
      
  United Kingdom        

(1)  
  Each of the named subsidiaries is not necessarily a  significant subsidiary  as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, and Berkshire has several
additional subsidiaries not named above. The unnamed subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  at the end of the year covered by this report.     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 dex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

EXHIBIT 23 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-61350, 333-81500, 333-98145, 333-164220,
and 333-164611 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-18443, 333-43366, 333-53046, 333-62273, 333-64284, 333-70609, 333-74312, 333-75612, 333-101662, 333-111614, 333-164962, 333-164961, 333-164959 and 333-164958 on Form S-8 of our reports
dated February 26, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and the effectiveness of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009.      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP
     Omaha, Nebraska      February 26,
2010   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 dex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1        FORM 10-K        Year ended December 31, 2009  
      Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Warren E. Buffett, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 26, 2010    

/ S /    W ARREN  E. B UFFETT    
 
   Chairman Principal Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2        FORM 10-K        Year ended December 31, 2009  
      Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Marc D. Hamburg, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 26, 2010        

/s/    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG            
 
   Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

EXHIBIT 32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1        FORM 10-K        Section 1350 Certifications  
      Year ended December 31, 2009       I, Warren E. Buffett, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       Dated: February 26, 2010        

/ S /    W ARREN  E.
B UFFETT            
 
     Warren E. Buffett       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 9
 dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

EXHIBIT 32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2        FORM 10-K        Section 1350 Certifications  
      Year ended December 31, 2009       I, Marc D. Hamburg, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       Dated: February 26, 2010        

/ S /    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG            
 
     Marc D. Hamburg       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      

</EX-32.2>

10-K
 10
 d10k1.pdf
 PDF OF THE FORM 10-K

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 brka-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 brka-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 brka-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 brka-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 brka-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 brka-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

