<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140303_10-K_edgar_data_1067983_0001193125-14-078778_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17470476</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>443849</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4194189</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3115995</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6062488</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3160381</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>92</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-14-078778.hdr.sgml : 20140303
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140303060850
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-14-078778
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140303
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140303

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001067983
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				470813844
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14905
		FILM NUMBER:		14658102

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3555 FARNAM STREET
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4023461400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3555 FARNAM STREET
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NBH INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980810

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-14-078778.txt : 20140303

10-K
 1
 d656225d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K    
   ANNUAL REPORT        PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
   
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013   
   Commission file number 001-14905       BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code (402) 346-1400    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Class A common stock, $5.00 Par Value  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Class B common stock, $0.0033 Par Value  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE    
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulations S-T during the preceding 12 months.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.:       

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer       
      
  Non-accelerated filer       
      
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No        
  State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2013: $205,145,000,000*
     Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant s classes of common stock:   
   
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    

Document    
      
     Incorporated In     

Proxy Statement for Registrant s Annual Meeting to be held May 3, 2014  
      
  Part III   

*  
  This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock on June 30, 2013. It does not include the value of Class A common stock (367,832
shares) and Class B common stock (84,449,183 shares) held by Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their immediate families, some of whom may not constitute  affiliates  for purpose of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.             

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents    

Page No.   

Part I     

Item 1.    
      
    Business    

1  

Item 1A.    
      
    Risk Factors    

22  

Item 1B.    
      
    Unresolved Staff Comments    

25  

Item 2.     
      
    Description of Properties    

25  

Item 3.     
      
    Legal Proceedings    

28  

Item 4.     
      
    Mine Safety Disclosures    

28  

Part II     

Item 5.    
      
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities     

29  

Item 6.     
      
    Selected Financial Data    

30  

Item 7.     
      
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations     

31  

Item 7A.    
      
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

64  

Item 8.     
      
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

65  

Consolidated Balance Sheets  December 31, 2013 and December 31,
2012    

66  

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  Years Ended December 31, 2013, December 
31, 2012, and December 31, 2011    

67  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  Years Ended December 31, 2013, 
December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011    

68  

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity  Years Ended December 
31, 2013, December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011    

68  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Years Ended December 31, 2013, December 
31, 2012, and December 31, 2011    

69  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

70  

Item 9.    
      
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure     

104  

Item 9A.    
      
    Controls and Procedures    

104  

Item 9B.    
      
    Other Information    

104  

Part III     

Item 10.    
      
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

105  

Item 11.    
      
    Executive Compensation    

105  

Item 12.    
      
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
Management and Related Stockholder Matters     

105  

Item 13.    
      
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    

105  

Item 14.    
      
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

105  

Part IV     

Item 15.    
      
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

105  

Signatures    

106  

Exhibit Index    

110  

Table of Contents  

      Part I    

Item  1.   
   Business         Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire,   Company  or  Registrant ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both
a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of
activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska.      Berkshire s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or
human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire s corporate office senior management participates in and is ultimately
responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire s corporate
governance efforts, including, but not limited to, communicating the appropriate  tone at the top  messages to its employees and associates, monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in
the resolution of governance-related issues as needed.      Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employ approximately
302,000 persons world-wide, of which 25 are located at the corporate headquarters.       Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses    
  Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance
entities. Berkshire s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident and health risks world-wide.   
  In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject
to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other
primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.      Reinsurance contracts are normally classified
as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks.
Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums, losses and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer.
Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or  retention.  Both quota-share and excess reinsurance
contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.      Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory
oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of
competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and
coverage conditions.      Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to regulation by their state of domicile
and by those states in which they are licensed or write policies on a non-admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish
minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a given company s authority to do business as conditions warrant. States
regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with affiliates. Dividends and capital distributions and other transactions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.
     Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed. These insurers are referred
to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable from the
admitted   
         1   

Table of Contents  

insurance markets of a state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as  excess and surplus  lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with
insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not
required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates and policy forms.      The insurance regulators of every state participate
in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However,
an insurer s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use
by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.      Berkshire s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the
aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire s U.S. based insurers was approximately $129 billion at December 31, 2013. All of Berkshire s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard   Poor s and A++ (superior) by
A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and operating performance.      The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program ( Program ) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. The Program currently extends to
December 31, 2014 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with
certifying  acts of terrorism.  Coverage under TRIA occurs when the industry insured loss for a certified event exceeds $100 million. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of
terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is
specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance (such as commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism
coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.      In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the
federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 85% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group s deductible. Under the Program currently in effect, the
deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2014 for Berkshire s consolidated insurance and reinsurance
businesses will be approximately $575 million. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year. It is not currently known whether TRIA will be extended beyond 2014.   
  Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the differing laws and regulations of each country in
which an insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose complex regulatory requirements on insurance businesses while other jurisdictions impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are required to be
licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of insurance liabilities and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory
requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries have historically provided insuring capacity to insurance syndicates at Lloyd s of London. Such capacity entitles the
Berkshire subsidiaries to a share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicates in proportion to the amount of capacity provided. This business is subject to regulation by the United Kingdom s Prudential Regulation Authority
which maintains comprehensive rules and regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of managing agents and syndicates.      Berkshire s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway
Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain retroactive reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of
time creating  float  (see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and will reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss
adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include investment income earned from investments. Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries employ approximately 36,000 persons in the aggregate.
Additional information related to each of Berkshire s four underwriting groups follows.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

    GEICO  GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its insurance
subsidiaries consist of: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company and GEICO Secure Insurance Company.
These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles and small commercial fleets and
acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, boat and life insurance to individuals. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via
the Internet or by telephone.      GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell
directly to the customer as well as with companies that use agency sales forces. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies may exacerbate price competition by selling their
products for a period of time at less than adequate rates. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy.      As a result of an
aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, voluntary policies-in-force have increased about 40% over the past five years. GEICO was the third largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms of premium volume in 2012.
According to A.M. Best data for 2012, the five largest automobile insurers have a combined market share of 52%, with GEICO s market share being approximately 9.7%. Since the publication of that data, management believes that GEICO s
current market share has grown to approximately 10.4% and that it is now the second largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States. Seasonal variations in GEICO s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary
weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.   
  Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance
companies to differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. GEICO s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods
and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims.      The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.   
   General Re  General Re Corporation ( General Re ) is the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation
( GRC ) and its subsidiaries and affiliates. GRC s subsidiaries include General Reinsurance AG, a major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 51 cities and
provide insurance and reinsurance coverages throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other reinsurance intermediary and risk management services, underwriting management and
investment management services. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium volume and shareholder capital.   
    Property/Casualty Reinsurance        General Re s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through GRC domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii where it is an
accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 16 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to clients without
involving a broker or intermediary. Coverages are written primarily on an excess basis and under treaty and facultative contracts. In 2013, approximately 35% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance coverages and 46%
related to property reinsurance coverages.      General Re s property/casualty business in North America also includes a few
smaller specialty insurers (primarily the General Star and Genesis companies domiciled in Delaware and Connecticut.) These specialty insurers underwrite primarily liability and workers  compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis and
excess insurance for self-insured programs. In 2013, the specialty insurers represented approximately 19% of General Re s North American property/casualty net written premiums.   
  General Re s international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are conducted through internationally-based
subsidiaries on a direct basis (via General Reinsurance AG as well as several other General Re subsidiaries and branches in 23 countries) and through brokers (primarily via Faraday, which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd s of
London   
         3   

Table of Contents  

and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435). Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of property, aviation and casualty
reinsurance coverage. In 2013, international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis.   
    Life/Health Reinsurance        General Re s North American and international life, health, long-term care and disability reinsurance coverages are written on an individual and group basis. Most of this business is written on a
proportional treaty basis, with the exception of the U.S. group health and disability business which is predominately written on an excess treaty basis. Lesser amounts of life and disability business are written on a facultative basis. The
life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2013, approximately 42% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 25% in Western Europe and the remaining 33% throughout the rest of the world.   
   Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) operates from offices
located in Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted through a group of subsidiary companies, led by National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) and Columbia Insurance Company ( Columbia ). BHRG provides principally excess
and quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. BHRG also offers life reinsurance and annuity contracts through Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska ( BHLN ) and financial guaranty
insurance through Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation.      The type and volume of insurance and reinsurance business written
by BHRG is dependent on current market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms as perceived by management, and can change rapidly. The level of BHRG s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to
year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets.      BHRG writes
catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty reinsurance contracts. BHRG also writes individual policies for primarily large or otherwise unusual discrete risks on both an excess direct and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as  individual
risk,  which includes policies covering terrorism, natural catastrophe and aviation risks. A catastrophe excess-of-loss policy provides protection to the counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a single loss
event or series of related events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce losses under a number of contracts. As a result, catastrophe and
individual risk business can produce extremely volatile periodic underwriting results. The extraordinary financial strength of NICO and Columbia are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of such coverages.
     BHRG periodically assumes risks under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection
to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is provided on an excess basis or immediately with respect to losses payable after the inception of the
contract. Coverage provided is normally subject to a large aggregate limit of indemnification. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under the contracts. Under certain contracts, the limits of
indemnification provided are exceptionally large. In 2007, an agreement became effective between NICO and Equitas, a London based entity established to reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years  non-life liabilities of the Names or
Underwriters at Lloyd s of London. Under the agreement NICO provides up to $7 billion of new reinsurance to Equitas. In 2009, NICO agreed to provide up to 5 billion Swiss Francs of aggregate excess retroactive protection to Swiss Reinsurance
Company Ltd. and its affiliates ( Swiss Re ). In 2010, NICO entered into a reinsurance agreement with Continental Casualty Company, a subsidiary of CNA Financial Corporation ( CNA ), and several of CNA s other insurance
subsidiaries (collectively the  CNA Companies ) under which NICO assumed the asbestos and environmental pollution liabilities of the CNA Companies subject to a maximum limit of indemnification of $4 billion. In 2011, NICO entered into a
contract with Eaglestone Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. ( AIG ). Under the contract, NICO agreed to reinsure the bulk of AIG s U.S. asbestos liabilities up to a maximum limit of indemnification
of $3.5 billion.      In BHRG s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is an important element
in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore,
produce underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds ( float ) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment results in future
periods.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

   BHRG also underwrites traditional non-catastrophe insurance and reinsurance coverages,
referred to as multi-line property/casualty business and beginning on January 1, 2008, it included a five-year 20% quota-share of property and casualty business underwritten by Swiss Re and its major property/casualty affiliates. This contract
expired with respect to business incepting after December 31, 2012 and is now in run-off.      For many years, BHLN has
offered annuity insurance and reinsurance products, in which it usually receives an upfront premium and makes a stream of annuity payments in the future. In 2010, BHLN entered into a life reinsurance contract with Swiss Re Life   Health
America Inc. ( SRLHA ), a subsidiary of Swiss Re. Under the agreement, BHLN assumed the liabilities and subsequent renewal premiums associated with a closed block of yearly renewable term reinsurance business. The agreement, as amended in
2013, is expected to remain in-force for several decades. At the end of 2010, BHLN also acquired the life reinsurance business of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada.      In the first quarter of 2013, BHRG reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death benefit coverages on a portfolio of variable annuity reinsurance contracts that have been in run-off for a number of years
under a 100% coinsurance reinsurance treaty with Connecticut General Life Insurance Company ( CGLIC ). The CGLIC contract will remain in force until the natural expiry of the underlying business, subject to an aggregate limit of
indemnification of $3.82 billion.       Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ( BH
Primary ) is a collection of independently managed primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the United States. These various operations are discussed below.
     NICO and certain affiliates (referred to as the National Indemnity Primary Group) underwrite motor vehicle and general
liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.   
  A collection of insurance companies referred to internally as the  Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies  ( BHHC )
primarily offer standalone workers  compensation, commercial auto and commercial property coverages. Over the past five years, BHHC has developed a national reach, with the ability to provide first dollar and small to mid-range deductible
workers  compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage is available only through state operated workers compensation funds. As a result, the volume of workers  compensation business written over that period
has grown significantly. BHHC serves a diverse client base. BHHC s business is generated primarily through independent agents and BHHC employees adjust substantially all of related claims.   
  Medical Protective Corporation ( MedPro ) offers products and solutions through its subsidiaries (The Medical Protective
Company and Princeton Insurance Company, which was acquired at the end of 2011) and is a national leader in providing healthcare malpractice insurance coverage and risk solutions for physicians, dentists, hospitals and health systems, as well as
other healthcare facilities and healthcare providers. MedPro has provided insurance coverage to protect healthcare providers against losses since 1899. MedPro s insurance policies are distributed primarily through a nationwide network of
appointed agents and brokers. MedPro offers strong claims handling and administration, risk management solutions, and a wide range of insurance coverage features though a team of experienced professional employees.   
  U.S. Investment Corporation ( USIC ), through its four subsidiaries led by United States Liability Insurance Company, is a
specialty insurer that underwrites commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale and retail insurance
agents. USIC companies underwrite and market 110 distinct specialty property and casualty insurance products.      Applied Underwriters, Inc. ( Applied ) is a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and mid-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries principally markets SolutionOne     , a product that bundles workers  compensation and other employment related insurance coverages and business
services into a seamless package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to mid-sized employers. Applied also markets EquityComp      which is a workers  compensation only product targeted to medium sized employers with a profit sharing
component.      In the fourth quarter of 2012, NICO acquired Clal U.S. Holdings, which owns GUARD Insurance Group
( GUARD ). GUARD is based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania and through four insurance subsidiaries provides commercial property and casualty insurance coverage to small- and mid-sized businesses.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

   In 2007, Berkshire acquired Boat America Corporation, which owns Seaworthy Insurance Company
and controls the Boat Owners Association of the United States (collectively  BoatU.S. ). BoatU.S. provides insurance, safety and other services to recreational watercraft owners and enthusiasts. Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha,
located in Omaha, Nebraska, historically provided credit and income protection insurance and related services to credit and debit card holders nationwide and recently began writing Medicare Supplement insurance.   
  Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance ( BHSI ) was formed in April 2013 with the goal of providing customers with tailored
solutions for large and complex risks ranging from natural catastrophes, to securities litigation, to construction liabilities. BHSI currently provides primary and excess commercial property, casualty, healthcare professional liability, executive
and professional lines insurance and related programs. To date, BHSI s business has principally been written on an excess   surplus lines basis in the U.S. market. Eventually, BHSI also plans to write policies on an admitted basis.
BHSI has established a home office in Boston and regional underwriting offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. BHSI expects to write business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents. The type
and volume of business written by BHSI will depend on prevailing premium rates and coverage terms that are deemed acceptable by its management.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

    Property and casualty loss liabilities    
  Berkshire s property and casualty insurance companies establish liabilities for estimated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims or case estimates, provisions for incurred-but-not-reported ( IBNR ) claims and legal and administrative costs to
settle claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques. Reference is made to  Critical Accounting
Policies,  included in Item 7 of this Report.      The table below presents the development of Berkshire s net
unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 2003 through 2012 and net unpaid loss data as of December 31, 2013. Data in the table related to acquisitions is included from the acquisition date forward. Berkshire s management believes
that the liabilities established as of December 31, 2013 are reasonable and adequate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar
amounts are in millions.       

*  
  The amounts of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these operations are based on the applicable foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of the
re-estimation period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.     
         7   

Table of Contents  

   The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years from the gross liability reflected in Berkshire s Consolidated Balance Sheet to the net amount, after reductions for amounts recoverable under ceded
reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts and loss reserve discounts.      Certain workers 
compensation loss liabilities are discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring after 2002. In addition, deferred
charges are recorded as assets at the inception of retroactive reinsurance contracts for the excess of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses over the premiums received. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized over the expected claim
payment period. Deferred charge amortization and loss reserve discount accretion are recorded as components of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.      The second section of the table shows the re-estimated net unpaid losses, including the impact of changes in related reserve discounts and deferred charges, based on experience as of the end of each
succeeding year. The re-estimated amount also reflects the effect of loss payments and re-estimation of remaining unpaid liabilities. The line labeled  cumulative deficiency (redundancy)  represents the aggregate increase (decrease) in the
initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2013. These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as components of losses and loss adjustment expenses and include accumulated reserve discount accretion and
deferred charge amortization. Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such balances which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts are also provided.   
  The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the other columns because redundancies or
deficiencies arising in earlier years may be included as components of redundancies or deficiencies in the more recent years. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in the year the contract was entered
into, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is prior to the contract date.      The third part of the
table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, and the subsequent payments of claims, readers are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances.   
   Investments  Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from
policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business ( float ). Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, life,
annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on
reinsurance contracts and related deferred income taxes. On a consolidated basis, the amount of float has grown from approximately $58 billion at the end of 2008 to approximately $77 billion at the end of 2013, primarily through internal
growth. BHRG and General Re accounted for approximately 74% of the consolidated float as of December 31, 2013. Equally important as the amount of the float is its cost, represented by Berkshire s periodic net underwriting gain or loss. The
increases in the amount of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and investment income over the past five years.
     Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of other publicly traded companies
which are concentrated in relatively few companies and large amounts of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity investments consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and municipalities,
mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by
Berkshire s corporate office. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to investment activities. Rather, management may increase or decrease investments in response to perceived changes
in opportunities for income or price appreciation relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.       Railroad Business
      On February 12, 2010, Berkshire completed its acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation through the
merger of a wholly-owned merger subsidiary and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. The merger subsidiary was the surviving entity and was renamed Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC ( BNSF ). BNSF is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and
through BNSF Railway Company operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF had about 43,000   
         8   

Table of Contents  

employees at the end of 2013. BNSF Railway operates one of the largest railroad networks in North America with approximately 32,500 route miles of track (excluding multiple main tracks, yard
tracks and sidings) in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. BNSF Railway owns approximately 23,000 route miles, including easements, and operates on approximately 9,500 route miles of trackage rights that permit BNSF Railway to operate its trains
with its crews over other railroads  tracks. As of December 31, 2013, the total BNSF Railway system, including single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consisted of approximately 51,000 operated miles of track, all of
which are owned by or held under easement by BNSF Railway except for approximately 10,500 miles operated under trackage rights.   
  In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the country, BNSF transports a
range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of the freight revenues of BNSF are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations, while the balance is subject to common
carrier published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels. BNSF s primary routes,
including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working
closely with approximately 200 shortline partners. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2013,
approximately 33% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 27% from industrial products, 23% from coal and 17% from agricultural products.       Regulatory Matters       BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and
regulations generally applicable to all of its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board ( STB ) of the United States Department of Transportation ( DOT ), the
Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ), as well as other federal, state and Canadian regulatory agencies. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving
certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can
affect the profitability of BNSF s business.      The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a
number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.
      Environmental Matters       BNSF s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to water, air emissions, toxic
substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also
inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.      Many of
BNSF s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF is now subject
to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known as the
Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liability for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be
responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third
parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF
operations.       Competition       The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in
certain markets, may exert pressure on price   
         9   

Table of Contents  

and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk,
time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads continue to develop and implement
operating efficiencies to improve productivity.      As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises,
competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also
operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2013 was approximately 49.5 percent.   
   Utilities and Energy Businesses       Berkshire currently owns an 89.8% voting common stock interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ), an international energy company with subsidiaries that generate, transmit,
store, distribute and supply energy. MidAmerican s businesses are managed as separate operating units. MidAmerican s domestic regulated energy interests are currently comprised of four regulated utility companies serving approximately
4.5 million retail customers, two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 16,400 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of approximately 7.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and a 50% interest in electricity
transmission businesses. Its Great Britain electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.9 million electricity end-users. In addition, MidAmerican s interests include a diversified portfolio of domestic independent power projects, a
hydroelectric facility in the Philippines, the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States, and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage franchise network in the United States. MidAmerican employs
approximately 19,700 persons in connection with its various operations.       General Matters    
  PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon,
Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy
dominates the service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electricity on a wholesale basis.   
  MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving
electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a variety of commercial and industrial
customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MEC sells electricity principally to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and regulated natural gas on a wholesale basis and sells electricity and natural gas
services in deregulated markets.      NV Energy, Inc. ( NV Energy ), acquired by MidAmerican on December 19, 2013, is an
energy holding company headquartered in Nevada, primarily consisting of two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada Power Company ( Nevada Power ) and Sierra Pacific Power Company ( Sierra Pacific ) (collectively, the  Nevada
Utilities ). Nevada Power serves electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra Pacific serves electric and natural gas customers in northern Nevada. The Nevada Utilities  combined service territory s economy includes gaming,
mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental. In addition to retail sales, the Nevada Utilities sell electricity on a wholesale basis.      As vertically integrated utilities, MidAmerican s domestic utilities own approximately 24,000 net MW of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in these businesses that are principally
related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the winter months.   
  The natural gas pipelines consist of Northern Natural Gas Company ( Northern Natural ) and Kern River Gas Transmission Company
( Kern River ). Northern Natural is based in Nebraska and owns the largest interstate natural gas pipeline system in the United States, as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from southern Texas to Michigan s Upper Peninsula.
Northern Natural s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural s extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid
system, has access to supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous   
         10   

Table of Contents  

other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural s pipeline system
experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.      Kern River is based in Utah and owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that consists of approximately 1,700 miles and extends from supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah,
Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for electric utilities and natural gas distribution utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies, electricity generating companies, energy marketing and
trading companies, and financial institutions.      The Great Britain utilities consist of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited
( Northern Powergrid (Northeast) ) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc ( Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) ), which own a substantial electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in
an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of electrical infrastructure.      MidAmerican Renewables is based in Iowa and owns interests in independent power projects that are in service or under construction in California, Illinois, Arizona, the Philippines, Texas, New York and
Hawaii. These independent power projects, consisting of solar, natural gas, wind, geothermal and hydroelectric generating facilities, produce energy that is sold principally under long-term power purchase agreements.   
   Regulatory Matters       PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) is an independent
agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act ( NGA ), the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission
of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies; accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and operation of
hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also
subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to its ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.   
  Except in Oregon, Washington, Nevada and Illinois, where certain customers have the right to choose alternative electricity service
suppliers, MidAmerican s utilities have an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. Historically, state regulatory commissions have
established retail electric and natural gas rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the utility s reasonable costs of providing
services, including a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and equity. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are generally based on the cost of providing
traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services.      The natural gas pipelines are
subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC pursuant to the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this
authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service and (b) the construction and operation of interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or
abandonment of such facilities. Interstate natural gas pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administrated by the Office of Pipeline Safety within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an agency within the DOT.
Federal pipeline safety regulations are issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline
facilities.      Northern Powergrid (Northeast) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) each charge fees for the use of their
distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The current five-year price control period is scheduled to end March 31, 2015.   
   Environmental Matters       MidAmerican and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards,
climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to impact   
         11   

Table of Contents  

MidAmerican s current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators with
the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.      The
Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to be
promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of MidAmerican s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities to comply with the requirements.   
  Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a
minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California, Iowa and Nevada have adopted renewable portfolio standards. In addition, the potential adoption of state or federal clean
energy standards, which include low-carbon, non-carbon and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact electricity generators and natural gas providers.      Comprehensive climate change legislation has not been adopted by Congress; however, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under various provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act has continued since the
Environmental Protection Agency s December 2009 findings that greenhouse gas emissions threaten public health and welfare. Since that determination, significant sources of greenhouse gas emissions have been required to report their greenhouse
gas emissions and to undergo a best available control technology determination in conjunction with permitting greenhouse gas emissions. As part of President Obama s Climate Action Plan issued in June 2013, the Environmental Protection Agency
was required to re-propose by September 2013 greenhouse gas new source performance standards that had originally been proposed in 2012 for new fossil-fueled power plants. The re-proposed standards for new sources were released in September 2013 and
generally propose a standard of 1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour for natural gas-fueled combustion turbines and 1,100 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour for coal-fueled units. In addition, the Climate Action Plan required the
Environmental Protection Agency to issue proposed standards or guidelines to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing fossil-fueled electric generating units by June 2014, to finalize those standards or guidelines by June 2015, and to require
states to submit implementation plans by June 2016.      While the debate continues at the federal and
international level over the direction of climate change policy, several states have continued to implement state-specific laws or regional initiatives to report or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, governmental, nongovernmental and
environmental organizations have become more active in pursuing climate change related litigation under existing laws.      The
impact of future federal, regional, state and international accords, legislation, regulation or judicial proceedings related to climate change cannot be quantified in any meaningful range at this time. New requirements limiting greenhouse gas
emissions could have a material adverse impact on MidAmerican.      MidAmerican continues to take actions to mitigate greenhouse
gas emissions. For example, as of December 31, 2013, MidAmerican owned 4,747 megawatts of wind-powered generating capacity in operation and under construction, which when completed is estimated to cost approximately $9 billion, and owned
1,271 megawatts of solar generating capacity in operation and under construction, which when completed is estimated to cost approximately $6 billion.       Non-Energy Businesses       MidAmerican also owns HomeServices of America, Inc.
( HomeServices ), the second largest full-service residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real
estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking primarily through joint ventures and subsidiaries, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related
services. It operates under 30 residential real estate brand names with over 22,000 sales agents and in over 450 brokerage offices in 25 states.      HomeServices  principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year. This business is highly
competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

   In October 2012, HomeServices acquired a 66.7% interest in the second largest residential
real estate brokerage franchise network in the United States, which offers and sells independently owned and operated residential real estate brokerage franchises. HomeServices  franchise network currently includes over 500 franchisees in over
1,600 brokerage offices in 49 states with over 44,000 sales associates under three brand names. In exchange for certain fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, Prudential and Real Living brand names and
other related service marks. In 2013, HomeServices began rebranding certain of its Prudential franchisees as Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices. As of December 31, 2013, 60 franchisees were rebranded. This activity will continue in 2014 with plans to
rebrand the majority of the remaining franchisees. HomeServices also provides orientation programs, training and consultation services, advertising programs, and other services.       Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses       Berkshire s numerous
and diverse manufacturing, service and retailing businesses are described below.       Marmon  In 2008, Berkshire
acquired approximately 64% of the outstanding common stock of Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ), a private company then owned by trusts for the benefit of members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago. On various dates in 2010, 2012 and 2013,
Berkshire acquired additional shares of outstanding stock held by noncontrolling shareholders and as of December 31, 2013 owned substantially all of Marmon. Marmon is currently comprised of three autonomous companies consisting of eleven
diverse business sectors and approximately 160 independent manufacturing and service businesses.      Marmon s three
companies and their respective sectors are as follows:       Marmon Engineered Industrial   Metal Components, Inc. 
( Engineered Components )       Distribution Services , supplying specialty metal pipe and tubing, bar and sheet
products to markets including construction, industrial, aerospace and many others;       Electrical   Plumbing Products
Distribution , supplying electrical building wire primarily for residential and commercial construction, and copper tube for the plumbing, HVAC, refrigeration and industrial markets, through the wholesale channel; and   
   Industrial Products , consisting of metal fasteners and fastener coatings for the construction, industrial and other markets, gloves
for industrial markets, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety markets, overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems, custom-machined aluminum and brass forgings for the construction, energy, recreation and other
industries, brass fittings and valves for commercial and industrial applications, and drawn aluminum tubing and extruded aluminum shapes for the construction, automotive, appliance, medical and other markets.   
   Marmon Natural Resource   Transportation Services, Inc.  ( Natural Resources )   
   Crane Services , providing the leasing and operation of mobile cranes primarily to the energy, mining and petrochemical markets;
      Engineered Wire   Cable , supplying electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and
other industries; and       Transportation Services   Engineered Products , including manufacturing, leasing and
maintenance of railroad tank cars, leasing of intermodal tank containers, in-plant rail services, manufacturing of bi-modal railcar movers, wheel, axle and gear sets for light rail transit and gear products for locomotives, manufacturing of steel
tank heads, and services, equipment and technology for processing and distributing sulfur.       Marmon Retail   End
User Technologies, Inc.  ( Retail Technologies )       Food Service Equipment,  supplying commercial food
preparation equipment for restaurants and shopping carts for retail stores;       Highway Technologies , primarily serving the
heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, fifth wheel coupling devices and undercarriage products such as brake parts and suspension systems, and also serving the light vehicle aftermarket with clutches and related products;
      Retail Home Improvement Products,  supplying electrical and plumbing products through the home center channel;
      Retail Store Fixtures , providing shelving systems, other merchandising displays and related services for retail stores,
as well as work and garden gloves sold at retail; and   
         13   

Table of Contents  

    Water Treatment , including residential water softening, purification and
refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and air-cooled heat exchangers.   
  Marmon businesses operate approximately 300 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities, and employ approximately 17,000 people
worldwide.       McLane Company   McLane Company, Inc. ( McLane ) provides wholesale distribution services in
all 50 states to customers that include convenience stores, discount retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane provides wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. ( Wal-Mart ), which accounts for approximately 25% of McLane s revenues. A curtailment of purchasing by Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on McLane s periodic revenues and earnings. McLane s business
model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control. Operations are currently divided into four business units: grocery distribution, foodservice distribution, beverage distribution, and software development.
In 2013, the grocery and foodservice units comprised approximately 98.5% of the total revenues of the company. McLane and its subsidiaries employ approximately 21,000 employees.   
  McLane s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a dominant market share within the convenience store industry
and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 50,000 retail locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane s grocery distribution unit operates
23 facilities in 19 states.      McLane s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the
quick service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states. The foodservice distribution unit services more than 20,000 chain restaurants nationwide. On August 24,
2012, McLane acquired Meadowbrook Meat Company (MBM). MBM, based in Rocky Mount, North Carolina is a large customized foodservice distributor for national restaurant chains. MBM operates from 37 distribution facilities in 16 states. MBM services
approximately 15,000 chain restaurants nationwide.      On April 23, 2010, McLane acquired Kahn Ventures, parent company of
Empire Distributors and Empire Distributors of North Carolina. Kahn Ventures and its subsidiaries are wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. Operations are conducted through nine distribution centers in two states. On
December 31, 2010, Kahn Ventures acquired Horizon Wine and Spirits, Inc. and on April 30, 2012 acquired Delta Wholesale Liquors. Operations of Horizon and Delta are conducted through three distribution centers located in Tennessee. The
beverage unit services more than 19,000 retail locations in the Southeastern United States.       Other Manufacturing, Service
and Retailing Businesses        Apparel Manufacturing  Berkshire s apparel manufacturing businesses include
manufacturers of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing products include Fruit of the Loom, Inc. ( Fruit ), Russell Brands, LLC ( Russell ), Vanity Fair Brands, LP
( VFB ), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire s footwear businesses include H.H. Brown Shoe Group, Justin Brands and Brooks Sports. These businesses employ approximately 39,000 persons in the aggregate.   
  Fruit, Russell and VFB (together  FOL ) are headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky. FOL is primarily a
vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear, casualwear and athletic apparel and hardgoods. Products, under the  Fruit of the
Loom     and  JERZEES     labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise and
wholesale markets. In the VFB product line,  Vassarette    ,  Bestform     and
 Curvation     are sold in the mass merchandise market, while  Vanity Fair    and Lily
of France     products are sold in the mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic uniforms, apparel, sports equipment and balls to team
dealers; collegiate licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores and mid-tier merchants; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the  Russell Athletic     and  Spalding     brands. Additionally,  Spalding     markets and sells balls in the mass merchandise market and dollar store channels. In 2013, approximately 33% of FOL s sales were to Wal-Mart.   
  FOL generally performs its own spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging for apparel. For the North American
market which comprised about 82% of FOL s net sales in 2013, the majority of its capital-intensive spinning operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with cloth manufacturing performed both in the U.S. and
Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central   
         14   

Table of Contents  

America and the Caribbean. For the European market, products are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco.
FOL s bras, athletic equipment, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.      U.S grown cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL s apparel products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Management
currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected,
which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL
has secured contracts to purchase cotton to meet the majority of its production plans for 2014. In 2012 and 2013, cotton market prices were in the range of $0.70 to $0.90 per pound which approximates the ten year average price. FOL s markets
are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style and quality and customer service.   
  Garan designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including boys, girls, toddlers and
infants. Products are sold under its own trademark  Garanimals       and customer private label brands. Garan
also licenses its registered trademark  Garanimals       to third parties for apparel and non-apparel products.
Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Substantially all of Garan s products are sold through its distribution centers in the United States. Wal-Mart accounted for over
90% of Garan s sales in 2013. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in
Cincinnati, Ohio.      Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufacture and distribute work, rugged
outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including  Justin, Tony Lama   , Nocona   , Chippewa   ,
B RN   ,
B                   C   , Carolina   , S fft, Double-H
Boots   , E rosoft   , and Softspots   .  Brooks Sports markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to specialty and national retailers under  Brooks     and  Moving Comfort     brands. In 2013 and 2012,  Brooks     achieved a #1 market share position in performance running footwear with specialty retailers. A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire s shoe businesses
are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through
company-owned retail stores.       Building Products Manufacturing  Acme Brick Company
( Acme ) headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks ( Acme
Brick       and  Jenkins Brick ), concrete block ( Featherlite ) and cut limestone  (Texas
Quarries).  In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries distribute a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central
and South Eastern United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.      Acme and its affiliates operate 26 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in eight states, six concrete block facilities in Texas and two stone fabrication facilities located in Texas and Alabama. In
addition, Acme and its subsidiaries operate a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility all located in Texas. The demand for Acme s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer
weather months and is subject to the level of construction activity which is cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Acme s raw materials supply is
believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.      Benjamin Moore   Co. ( Benjamin
Moore ), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-based and solvent-based
general purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including, but not limited to,  Aura   , Nattura   , Regal      ,  Super Spec      ,
 MoorGard   , ben   , Coronado   , Insl-x    and
Lenmar   .        Benjamin
Moore and its manufacturing subsidiaries rely primarily on an independent dealer network for distribution of its products. Benjamin Moore s distribution network includes approximately 72 company-owned stores as well as over 4,200 third party
retailers currently representing over 6,300 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore s company-owned stores represent several multiple-outlet chains in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily
contractors and general consumers. The independent dealer channel offers a broad array of products including  Benjamin Moore   , Coronado     and  Insl-x     brands and other competitor coatings, wall coverings, window treatments
and sundries. In   
         15   

Table of Contents  

addition, Benjamin Moore operates an on-line  pick up in store  program, which allows consumers to place orders via an e-commerce site or for national accounts and government agencies
via its customer information center. These orders may be picked up at the customer s nearest dealer.      Johns Manville
( JM ) is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential
applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe insulation, filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiber glass is the basic material in a
majority of JM s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. Raw materials are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources
for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in
Denver, Colorado, and operates 45 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at its technical center in Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.   
  JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators.
JM holds leadership positions in all of the key markets that it serves and typically competes with a few large global and national competitors and several smaller regional competitors. JM s products compete primarily on the basis of value,
product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. Sales of JM s products are moderately seasonal due to increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. JM is
seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being determined based on the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products, services and operations.   
  MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products,
engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who manufacture pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and
wall panels for the residential building market as well as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the light gauge steel framing market under the  Ultra-Span       name, manufactures and markets assembly line machinery used by the lead acid battery industry, manufactures and
markets a line of masonry connector products and manufactures and markets air handling systems used in commercial building. In 2013, MiTek acquired Benson Industries, Inc., a market leading company providing design, engineering, supply and
installations of quality curtainwall and external cladding worldwide and acquired Cubic Designs, Inc., a premier provider of pre-engineered, prefabricated mezzanine systems and related structures. MiTek operates on six continents with sales into
approximately 100 countries. MiTek has 43 manufacturing facilities located in 13 countries and 52 sales/engineering offices located in 20 countries.      The Shaw Industries Group, Inc. ( Shaw ), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and
manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted carpet, tufted and woven rugs, laminate and wood flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides installation services and
sells ceramic and vinyl tile along with sheet vinyl. Shaw s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw s carpet, rugs and hard surface
products are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures. Shaw acquired Sportexe (now Shaw Sports Turf) in 2009 and Southwest Greens International, LLC in 2011 which provides an entry into the synthetic sports turf, golf greens
and landscape turf markets.      Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 32,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users
throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,000 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and
distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw s nine carpet, three hard surface, one rug and one sample full-service distribution facilities and 23 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to
provide prompt efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.      Substantially all
carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired
texture or construction. During 2013, Shaw processed approximately 98% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good but margins are impacted by petro-chemical and
natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

   The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in
the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 55% of the total United States
consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.      Demand for products of Berkshire s building products businesses is affected to varying degrees by commercial construction and industrial activity in the U.S. and Europe and the level of U.S. housing
construction. The building products businesses are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use
and disposal of hazardous substances. The building products manufacturers employ approximately 36,000 persons in the aggregate.   
   Other Manufacturing       In September 2011, Berkshire acquired The Lubrizol Corporation ( Lubrizol ). Lubrizol is a specialty chemical company that produces and supplies technologies for the global transportation,
industrial and consumer markets. Lubrizol operates two business sectors: (1) Lubrizol Additives, which includes engine additives, driveline additives and industrial specialties products; and (2) Lubrizol Advanced Materials, which includes
personal and home care, engineered polymers, performance coatings, and life science polymers products. Lubrizol s products are used in a broad range of applications including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty driveline
lubricants, fuel additives, refineries and oilfields, metalworking fluids, compressor lubricants, greases for transportation and industrial applications, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, performance coatings, personal care products,
sporting goods and plumbing and fire sprinkler systems. Lubrizol is an industry leader in many of the markets in which it competes. Its principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton
Chemical Corporation. The advanced materials industry is highly fragmented with a variety of competitors in each product line.   
  From a base of approximately 2,075 patents, Lubrizol uses its technological leadership position in product development and formulation
expertise to improve the quality, value and performance of its products, as well as to help minimize the environmental impact of those products. Lubrizol uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing processes and
uses base oil in processing and blending additives. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single
source typically are subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability. Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through a direct sales organization and sales agents and distributors where necessary. Lubrizol s customers
principally consist of major global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products companies that are located in more than 110 countries. Some of its largest customers also may be suppliers. In 2013, no single customer accounted for
more than 10% of Lubrizol s consolidated revenues.      Lubrizol continues to implement a multi-year phased investment plan
to increase global manufacturing capacity, upgrade operations and ensure compliance with health, safety and environmental requirements. As part of the investment plan, in August 2013, Lubrizol completed construction of its $310 million additives
manufacturing facility and research laboratory in Zhuhai, China, and Lubrizol is implementing plans to invest approximately $150 million to increase chlorinated polyvinyl chloride resin and compounding capacity by the end of 2014 to meet global
customer demand. Capital spending in 2013 was approximately $350 million. Capital expenditures over the next three years are expected to approximate $1.5 billion.      Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the environment and limit manufacturing waste and emissions. The company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are
designed to limit the risk of environmental damage and consequent financial liability. Nevertheless, the operation of manufacturing plants entails ongoing environmental risks, and significant costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.
     Lubrizol operates facilities in 27 countries (including production facilities in 16 countries and laboratories in 14
countries). On August 30, 2013, Lubrizol completed the acquisition of Chemtool, Inc., a leading global supplier of custom formulated greases and lubricants.   
  Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V. ( IMC B.V. ) in 2006.
On April 29, 2013, Berkshire acquired the remaining 20% noncontrolling interests of IMC B.V. Through its subsidiaries, IMC B.V. is one of the world s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting
tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC B.V. s principal brand names include
 ISCAR      ,  TaeguTec      ,  Ingersoll      ,
 Tungaloy      ,  Unitac      ,  UOP It.te.di       and
 Outiltec      . IMC B.V. s manufacturing facilities are located mainly in Israel, United States, Germany,
Italy, France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

   IMC B.V. has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools, turning/thread
tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal cutting inserts are
used by industrial manufactures to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC B.V. manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and
meet the technical requirements of customers.      IMC B.V. s global sales and marketing network has representatives in
virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC B.V. s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the
automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC B.V. operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Korea and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local
IMC B.V. offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.      IMC B.V. competes in the metal
cutting tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinationals with
a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks.      Forest River, Inc. ( Forest River ) is a
manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility, cargo and office trailers, buses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products are sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has
manufacturing facilities in six states.      CTB International Corp. ( CTB ), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a
leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of agricultural systems and solutions for preserving grain, producing poultry, pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry. CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers
in more than 100 countries primarily through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.   
  The Scott Fetzer companies are a diversified group of 20 businesses that manufacture, distribute, service and
finance a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell Hausfeld. Albecca Inc. ( Albecca ), headquartered in Norcross,
Georgia, does business primarily under the  Larson-Juhl       name. Albecca designs, manufactures and
distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 15 countries outside of North America. Richline
Group, Inc. is the business platform providing financial, operations and marketing support to its four independent strategic business units: Richline Brands, LeachGarner, Rio Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is uniquely a manufacturer and
marketer of precious metal products to specific target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping networks, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and artisans plus worldwide manufacturers and wholesalers.   
  Berkshire s other manufacturers employ approximately 38,000 persons in the aggregate.   
   Other Service Businesses       FlightSafety International Inc. ( FlightSafety ), headquartered at New York s LaGuardia Airport, is an industry leader in professional aviation training services to individuals, businesses
(including certain commercial aviation companies) and U.S. and foreign governments. FlightSafety primarily provides high technology training to pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and support a
wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. FlightSafety operates a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at its learning centers and training locations in the United States, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Japan, Norway,
South Africa, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The vast majority of FlightSafety s instructors, training programs and flight simulators are qualified by the United States Aviation Administration and other aviation regulatory agencies
around the world.      FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight simulators, visual systems,
displays, and other advanced technology training devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations around the world. Manufacturing facilities are
located in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and develop courseware using state of the art technology and invests in research and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.
     NetJets Inc. ( NetJets ) is the world s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation
aircraft. NetJets  executive offices and U.S. operations are located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NetJets  European operations are based in Lisbon,
Portugal. The fractional   
         18   

Table of Contents  

ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are
available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft.   
  NetJets  fractional aircraft ownership programs permit customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain
aircraft type and allow customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and aviation solutions that provide aircraft management, ground support and flight operation
services under a number of programs including NetJets Shares , NetJets Leases  and the Marquis Jet
Card     . In 2010, NetJets introduced the NetJets Signature Series  of aircraft, which have been customized
from design through production based on feedback from owners.      NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal
Aviation Administration, the National Institute of Civil Aviation of Portugal, and the European Aviation Safety Agency. Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including
flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues and other matters. NetJets places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, low and predictable
operating costs and increased liquidity.      TTI, Inc. ( TTI ), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global
specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical and discrete components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling of electronic products. TTI s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic
manufacturing services, original design manufacturers, military and commercial customers, as well as design and system engineers. TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment,
aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics. TTI s business model covers design through production in the electronic component supply chain and consists of its core business, which supports high volume production business and its catalog
division, which supports a broader base of customers with lower volume purchases.      TTI s franchise distribution
agreements with the industry s leading suppliers allow it to uniquely leverage its product cost and to expand its business by providing new lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and distribution centers from more than
100 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Israel. In April 2012, TTI acquired Sager Electrical Supply Company, Inc. ( Sager ), a leading distributor of electronic components headquartered in Middleborough, Massachusetts.
Sager s business model and focus on electromechanical products allows TTI to further provide customers and suppliers a unique combination of operational excellence and innovative business solutions and to expand its customer base.   
  Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases to the media, online services and
databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and in 45 languages. Roughly 90% of the company s revenue comes from its core business of news distribution. The Buffalo News and BH Media Group, Inc. ( BHMG ) are
publishers of 31 daily and 41 weekly newspapers in upstate New York, New Jersey, Nebraska, Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama and Florida. In 2013, BHMG acquired four daily newspapers in Oklahoma,
Virginia, North Carolina and New Jersey. The newspapers operate in small to mid-sized markets with strong local community connections. International Dairy Queen services a worldwide system of over 6,300 stores operating under the names  Dairy
Queen       , Orange Julius       and  Karmelkorn       that
offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods. Precision Steel and its affiliates operate steel service centers in the Chicago and Charlotte metropolitan areas. The service centers buy
stainless steel, low carbon sheet and strip steel, coated metals, spring steel, and other metals, cut these metals to order, and sell them to customers involved in a wide variety of industries.   
  Berkshire s service businesses employ approximately 21,000 persons in the aggregate.   
   Retailing Businesses  Berkshire s retailing businesses principally consist of several independently managed home
furnishings and jewelry operations. These retailers employ approximately 15,000 persons. Information regarding each of these operations follows.      The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart ( NFM ), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings ( R.C. Willey ), Star Furniture Company ( Star ) and Jordan s
Furniture, Inc. ( Jordan s ). NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics,
computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan s also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce
high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

   NFM operates its business from two very large retail complexes with almost one million
square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska and Kansas City, Kansas. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of its markets. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa,
which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space. In late 2011, NFM announced that it plans to build a new retail store, warehouse and administrative facility in a suburb of Dallas, Texas. The store is expected to include approximately
1.8 million square feet of retail and warehouse space and anchor a multi-use retail and entertainment development site. The completion of the new facilities is scheduled for 2015.   
  R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United
States. R.C. Willey operates 11 retail stores, two retail clearance facilities and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.7 million square feet of retail space with eight stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho,
three stores in Nevada and one store in California. Star s retail facilities include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in 11 locations in Texas with eight in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets.
Jordan s operates a furniture retail business from five locations with approximately 625,000 square feet of retail space in Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton,
Massachusetts. Jordan s is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.   
  Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. ( Borsheims ) operates from two locations in Nebraska, a 62,000 square foot
flagship store in Omaha and a 5,500 square foot outlet store in Gretna. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc.
( Helzberg ) is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates a chain of 234 retail jewelry stores in 37 states, which includes approximately 500,000 square feet of retail space. Helzberg s stores are located in malls, lifestyle
centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and all stores operate under the name  Helzberg Diamonds      
or  Helzberg Diamonds Outlet      . The Ben Bridge Corporation ( Ben Bridge Jeweler ), based in
Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 80 upscale retail jewelry stores located in 11 states that are primarily in the Western United States and Canada. Fifteen of its retail locations are concept stores that sell only PANDORA jewelry. Principal
products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with approximately 36% of annual revenues earned in the
fourth quarter.      Also included in Berkshire s group of retailing businesses is See s Candies
( See s ), which produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco and one smaller facility in Burlingame, California.
See s operates over 200 retail and quantity discount stores located mainly in California and other Western states. See s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately 45% of total annual revenues earned in the months of November and
December. The Pampered Chef, LTD ( TPC ) is a premier direct seller of high quality kitchen tools with operations in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany and Mexico. TPC product portfolio consists of approximately 500 TPC
branded items in twelve categories, which are researched, designed and tested by TPC and manufactured by third-party suppliers. TPC products are available primarily through a sales force of independent consultants.   
  Oriental Trading Company, Inc. ( OTC ) is a leading multi-channel retailer and online destination for value-priced party
supplies, arts and crafts, toys and novelties, school supplies, educational games, home d cor and giftware. OTC, based in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million customers annually including consumers, schools, churches,
non-profit organizations and other businesses. OTC operates a number of websites and utilizes multiple print and online marketing efforts.   
   Finance and Financial Products       Clayton Homes, Inc. ( Clayton ), which is headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At December 31, 2013, Clayton operated 35
manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of 1,528 retailers, including 322 company-owned home centers. Financing is offered through its finance subsidiaries to purchasers of Clayton s
manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers.      Clayton competes at the
manufacturing, retail and finance levels on the basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its
product. Retail sales are supported by Clayton s offering of various finance and insurance programs.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

Finance programs include home note and mortgage originations supporting company-owned home centers and select independent retailers. Proprietary loan underwriting guidelines have been developed
and include gross income, debt to income limits and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants. Approximately 62% of the originations are home-only loans and the remaining 38% have land as additional collateral.
The average down payment is about 20%, which may be from cash or land equity. Each loan with land will have an independent appraisal in order to establish the value of the land. Originations are all at fixed rates and for fixed terms. Loans
outstanding also include bulk purchases of contracts and mortgages from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers and services housing contracts and mortgages that were not purchased or
originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold housing contracts and mortgages. Clayton also acts
as agent on physical damage insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies and other programs.   
  XTRA Corporation ( XTRA ), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment
lessor operating under the XTRA Lease      brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 80,000 units
located at 56 facilities throughout the United States. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of
over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation
equipment, XTRA s utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce
capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.      CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental relocation services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the  rent-to-rent  segment of
the furniture rental industry. BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of earning above average investment returns. BH Finance also enters into derivative contracts and assumes
foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. This business is conducted from Berkshire s corporate headquarters. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the nature of these activities as well as the markets in
general. Berkshire s finance and financial products businesses employ approximately 14,000 persons.       Additional information with
respect to Berkshire s businesses       The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable
to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 23 to Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Berkshire s
investments in fixed maturity securities, equity securities and other investments is included in Notes 3, 4 and 5 to Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements.      On June 7, 2013, Berkshire and an affiliate of the global investment firm 3G Capital (such affiliate,  3G ), through a newly formed holding company, H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation
( Heinz Holding ), acquired H.J. Heinz Company ( Heinz ). Berkshire and 3G each made equity investments in Heinz Holding, which, together with debt financing obtained by Heinz Holding, was used to acquire Heinz for approximately
$23.25 billion. Additional information concerning these investments is included in Note 6 to the Registrant s Consolidated Financial Statements.      Heinz is one of the world s leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz is a global
family of leading branded products, including Heinz      Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta, infant foods, Ore-Ida      potato products, Weight Watchers      Smart Ones      entr es
and T.G.I. Friday s      snacks.      Berkshire maintains a website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its
subsidiaries  websites can be found. Berkshire s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire.
Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC s website ( http://www.sec.gov ) and indirectly through Berkshire s website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of
charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street
N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).   
         21   

Table of Contents  

Item  1A.   
   Risk Factors         Berkshire
and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as  we,   us,   our  or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.       Our tolerance for risk in our insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.       When properly paid for the risk assumed, we have been and will continue to be willing to assume more risk from a single event than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. Accordingly, we could incur a
significant loss from a single event. We may also write coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. We attempt to take into account all possible correlations and avoid writing groups of policies from which pre-tax losses might aggregate
above $10 billion. Currently, we estimate that our aggregate exposure from a single risk under outstanding policies is significantly below $10 billion. However, it is possible that despite our efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not
anticipated. Our tolerance for significant insurance losses will likely result in lower reported earnings (or net losses) in a future period.   
   The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant
underwriting losses.       The principal cost associated with the property and casualty insurance business is claims. In writing
property and casualty insurance policies, we receive premiums today and promise to pay covered losses in the future. However, it will take decades before all claims that have occurred as of any given balance sheet date will be reported and settled.
Although we believe that liabilities for unpaid losses are adequate, we will not know whether these liabilities or the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product
lines, our objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Our estimated unpaid losses arising under contracts covering property and casualty insurance risks are large ($65
billion at December 31, 2013) so even small percentage increases to the aggregate liability estimate can result in materially lower future periodic reported earnings.       Investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.       We concentrate a high percentage of our investments in equity securities in a small number of companies and diversify our investment portfolios far less than is conventional in the insurance industry. A
significant decline in the fair values of our larger investments may produce a material decline in our consolidated shareholders  equity and our consolidated book value per share. Under certain circumstances, significant declines in the fair
values of these investments may require the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment losses.      A large percentage of our
investments are held in our insurance companies and a decrease in the fair values of our investments could produce a large decline in statutory surplus. Our large statutory surplus serves as a competitive advantage, and a material decline could have
a material adverse affect our ability to write new insurance business thus affecting our future underwriting profitability.       Derivative
contracts may require significant future cash settlement payments and result in significant losses.       We have assumed the
risk of potentially significant losses under equity index put option and credit default contracts. Although we received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these risks, there is no assurance that the premiums we received will exceed
our aggregate loss or settlement payments. Our risks of losses under equity index put option contracts are based on declines in equity prices of stocks comprising certain major stock indexes. The contracts expire beginning in 2018 and we could be
required to make payments when these contracts expire if equity index prices are significantly below the strike prices specified in the contracts. Our risks under credit default contracts are limited to specified municipalities, amounts per
municipality and aggregate contract limits. The deterioration of the financial condition of the referenced municipalities could result in significant losses.      Equity index put option and credit default contracts are recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the periodic changes in fair values are reported in earnings. The valuations of these
contracts and the impact on our earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the volatility of equity and credit markets. Adverse changes in equity and credit markets may result in material losses in periodic earnings.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

    We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital allocation decisions.
      Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board
of Directors and CEO, age 83, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 90. If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable, there could be a
material adverse effect on our operations. However, Berkshire s Board of Directors has identified certain current Berkshire subsidiary managers who, in their judgment, are capable of succeeding Mr. Buffett. Berkshire s Board has
agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its current view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that the
Board s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running our numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.       We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our various businesses.    
  In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent management to direct day-to-day business activities of our operating
subsidiaries. Our operating subsidiaries also need qualified and competent personnel in executing their business plans and serving their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the
unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively impact our operating subsidiaries ability to meet demands of customers to supply goods and services. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is important to all of our operations. Although
we have adequate personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for goods and services may exacerbate the risk of not having sufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a negative impact on our
operating results, financial condition and liquidity.       The past growth rate in Berkshire s book value per share is not an indication
of future results.       In the years since our present management acquired control of Berkshire, our book value per share has
grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of our capital base (shareholders  equity of approximately $222 billion as of December 31, 2013), our book value per share will very likely  not  increase in the future at
a rate even close to its past rate.       Risks unique to our regulated businesses    
   Insurance Businesses       Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulations may relate to among other things, the types of business that can be written, the rates that
can be charged for coverage, the level of capital that must be maintained, and restrictions on the types and size of investments that can be made. Regulations may also restrict the timing and amount of dividend payments. Accordingly, changes in
regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory actions imposing restrictions on our insurance companies, may adversely impact our results of operations.       Railroad Business       Our railroad business conducted through BNSF is subject
to a significant number of governmental laws and regulations with respect to rates and practices, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations
could have a material adverse effect on BNSF s business. Governments may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on the
business. Federal legislation enacted in 2008 mandates the implementation of positive train control technology by December 31, 2015, on certain mainline track where intercity and commuter passenger railroads operate and where
toxic-by-inhalation ( TIH ) hazardous materials are transported. This type of technology is new and deploying it across BNSF Railway s system and other railroads may pose significant operating and implementation risks and requires
significant capital expenditures.      BNSF derives a significant amount of revenue from the transportation of coal. To the extent
that changes in government environmental policies limit or restrict the usage of coal as a source of fuel in generating electricity or alternate fuels, such as natural gas, displace coal on a competitive basis, BNSF s revenues and earnings
could be adversely affected. As a common carrier, BNSF is also required to transport TIH chemicals and other hazardous materials. An accidental release of hazardous materials could expose BNSF to significant claims, losses, penalties and
environmental remediation obligations. Increased economic regulation of the rail industry could negatively impact BNSF s ability to determine prices for rail services and to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting in an adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

    Utilities and Energy Businesses    
  Our utilities and energy businesses are highly regulated by numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities in the
jurisdictions in which they operate. These laws and regulations are complex, dynamic and subject to new interpretations or change. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses, have broad application and limit their
management s ability to independently make and implement decisions regarding numerous matters, including acquiring businesses; constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; operating and maintaining generating facilities and
transmission and distribution system assets; complying with pipeline safety and integrity and environmental requirements; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; transacting between
our domestic utilities and our other subsidiaries and affiliates; and paying dividends or similar distributions. Failure to comply with or reinterpretations of existing regulations and new legislation or regulations, such as those relating to air
and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, cyber security, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters, or changes
in the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant adverse impact on our financial results.      Our utilities and
energy businesses require significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain generation, transmission and distribution systems to meet their customers  needs and reliability criteria. Additionally, such systems may need to be
operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers.   
   Competition and technology may erode our business franchises and result in lower earnings.    
  Each of our operating businesses face intense competitive pressures within markets in which they operate. While we manage our businesses
with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages.
Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic
operating results in the future may decline from current levels.       Deterioration of general economic conditions may significantly reduce our
operating earnings and impair our ability to access capital markets at a reasonable cost.       Our operating businesses are
subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which they operate. To the extent that the recovery from the recent economic recession continues to be slow or the economy worsens for a prolonged period of
time, one or more of our significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our utilities and energy businesses, our railroad business and our manufactured housing business regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital
structures. These businesses depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the capital markets is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be
adversely affected.       Civil unrest and terrorism acts could hurt our operating businesses.    
  Historically, we derived a relatively small amount of our revenues and earnings from international markets. Globally, our businesses are
conducted primarily in regions where relatively stable political conditions have prevailed. However, certain of our business operations are subject to relatively higher risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest. Further, terrorism
activities deriving from unstable conditions or acts intended to compromise the integrity or security of our computer networks and information systems, in general could produce significant losses to our worldwide operations. Our business operations
could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources or destruction of production facilities and information systems.   
   Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.       In recent years, partially in response to the financial markets crises and the global economic recessions, and social and environmental issues, regulatory initiatives have accelerated in the United States
and abroad. Such initiatives address for example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, environmental and global-warming matters and health care reform. It is not yet clear whether or not these initiatives will result in
significant changes to existing laws and regulations. Many of the regulations associated with enacted legislation have yet to be written or the costs of compliance associated with enacted legislation may not be fully known or understood. These
initiatives and the related costs to comply with such initiatives could have a significant negative impact on our operating businesses, as well as on the businesses that we have a significant but not controlling economic interest. Accordingly, we
cannot predict whether such initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

Item  1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments      
  None.       

Item  2.   
   Description of Properties      
  The properties used by Berkshire s business segments are summarized in this section. Berkshire s railroad and utilities and
energy businesses, in particular, utilize considerable physical assets in their businesses.       Railroad Business    
  Through BNSF Railway, BNSF operates a railroad network in North America with approximately 32,500 route miles of track (excluding multiple
main tracks, yard tracks and sidings) in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. BNSF owns approximately 23,000 route miles, including easements, and operates on approximately 9,500 route miles of trackage rights that permit BNSF to operate its trains
with its crews over other railroads  tracks. The total BNSF Railway system, including single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consists of approximately 51,000 operated miles of track, all of which are owned by or held under
easement by BNSF except for approximately 10,500 miles operated under trackage rights.      BNSF operates various facilities and
equipment to support its transportation system, including its infrastructure and locomotives and freight cars. It also owns or leases other equipment to support rail operations, including containers, chassis and vehicles. Support facilities for rail
operations include yards and terminals throughout its rail network, system locomotive shops to perform locomotive servicing and maintenance, a centralized network operations center for train dispatching and network operations monitoring and
management in Fort Worth, Texas, regional dispatching centers, computers, telecommunications equipment, signal systems and other support systems. Transfer facilities are maintained for rail-to-rail as well as intermodal transfer of containers,
trailers and other freight traffic and include approximately 30 intermodal hubs located across the system. BNSF owns or holds under non-cancelable leases exceeding one year approximately 7,000 locomotives and 74,000 freight cars, in addition to
maintenance of way and other equipment.       Utilities and Energy Businesses    
  MidAmerican s energy properties consist of the physical assets necessary to support its electricity and natural gas businesses.
Properties of MidAmerican s electricity businesses include electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, as well as coal mining assets that support certain of MidAmerican s electric generating facilities. Properties of
MidAmerican s natural gas businesses include natural gas distribution facilities, interstate pipelines, storage facilities, compressor stations and meter stations. In addition to these physical assets, MidAmerican has rights-of-way, mineral
rights and water rights that enable MidAmerican to utilize its facilities. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, a majority of these properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for the related subsidiary
debt. MidAmerican or its affiliates own or have interests in the following types of electric generation facilities at December 31, 2013:       

Energy Source    
     
     Entity    
     
     Location by Significance    
     
   Facility Net Capacity (MW)
 (1)    

Net
MW Owned  (1)    

Coal   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC and NV Energy  
     
  Iowa, Wyoming, Utah, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado and Montana  

17,638  

10,580  

Natural gas and other   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC, NV Energy and MidAmerican Renewables  
     
  Nevada, Utah, Iowa, Illinois, Washington, Oregon, Texas, New York and Arizona  

9,954  

9,306  

Wind   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC and MidAmerican Renewables  
     
  Iowa, Wyoming, Washington, California, Oregon and Illinois  

3,750  

3,741  

Hydroelectric   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC and MidAmerican Renewables  
     
  Washington, Oregon, The Philippines, Idaho, California, Utah, Hawaii, Montana, Illinois and Wyoming  

1,309  

1,282  

Nuclear   
     
  MEC  
     
  Illinois  

1,816  

454  

Solar   
     
  MidAmerican Renewables  
     
  California and Arizona  

588  

440  

Geothermal   
     
  PacifiCorp and MidAmerican Renewables  
     
  California and Utah  

361  

198  

Total  

35,416  

26,001  

(1)   
     Facility Net Capacity (MW) represents (except for wind-powered generation facilities, which are nominal ratings) either: 1) PacifiCorp the
total capability of a generating unit as demonstrated by actual operating or test experience, less power generated and used for auxiliaries and other station uses, and is determined using average   annual temperatures; 
     
         25   

Table of Contents  

2) MEC the total facility accredited net generating capacity based on MEC s accreditation approved by the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc.;3) NV Energy the
total capability of a generating unit, less auxiliary and station demands, available at peak summer conditions; or 4) MidAmerican Renewables the contract capacity for most facilities. Net MW Owned indicates MidAmerican s ownership of
Facility Net Capacity (MW).         Additionally, as of December 31, 2013, MidAmerican s subsidiaries
have electric generating facilities that are under construction in Iowa, California and Utah having total Facility Net Capacity and Net MW Owned of 2,482 MW.      PacifiCorp, MEC and NV Energy own electric transmission and distribution systems, including approximately 24,200 miles of transmission lines and approximately 1,700 substations, gas distribution
facilities, including approximately 25,700 miles of gas mains and service lines, and an estimated 88 million tons of recoverable coal reserves in mines owned or leased in Wyoming, Utah and Colorado.   
  Northern Natural s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines, including approximately 6,300
miles of mainline transmission pipelines and approximately 8,400 miles of branch and lateral pipelines. Northern Natural s end-use and distribution market area includes points in Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota, Wisconsin, South Dakota, Michigan and
Illinois and its natural gas supply and delivery service area includes points in Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. Storage services are provided through the operation of one underground natural gas storage field in Iowa, two underground
natural gas storage facilities in Kansas and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units, one in Iowa and one in Minnesota.   
  Kern River s system consists of approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipelines, including approximately 1,400 miles of mainline
section, including 100 miles of lateral pipelines, and approximately 300 miles of common facilities. Kern River owns the entire mainline section, which extends from the system s point of origination in Wyoming through the Central Rocky
Mountains area into California.      Northern Powergrid (Northeast) s and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) s electricity
distribution network includes approximately 18,000 miles of overhead lines, approximately 40,000 miles of underground cables and approximately 700 major substations.       Other Segments       The physical properties used by Berkshire s other
significant business segments are summarized below:       

Business    
      
     Country    
      
     Location    
      
     Type of Property/Facility    
     
   Number     of     Properties   

Owned/ Leased     

Insurance Group:   

GEICO   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Chevy Chase, MD and 6 other states  
      
  Offices  

13  

Owned   

Various locations in 37 states  
      
  Offices  

104  

Leased   

General Re   
      
  U.S.  
      
    Stamford, CT  
  Various locations   
      
    Offices  
  Offices   

1     26   

Owned     Leased    

Non-U.S.    
      
  Cologne, Germany  
      
  Offices  

2  

Owned   

Various locations in 23 countries  
      
  Offices  

28  

Leased   

BHRG   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Stamford, CT and 9 other locations  
      
  Offices  

10  

Leased   

Non-U.S.   
      
  Various locations in 5 countries  
      
  Offices  

9  

Leased   

BH Primary Group   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Omaha, NE, Fort Wayne, IN, Princeton, NJ and Wilkes-Barre, PA  
      
  Offices  

10  

Owned   

Various locations in 19 states  
      
  Offices  

52  

Leased   

Marmon   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Various locations  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants     Offices  
  Offices     Warehouses  
  Warehouses   

81     27  
  5     20  
  30  
  31   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     
         26   

Table of Contents  

Business    
      
     Country    
      
     Location    
      
     Type of Property/Facility    
     
   Number     of     Properties   

Owned/ Leased     

Non-U.S.    
      
  Various locations in 21 countries  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants     Offices  
  Offices     Warehouses  
  Warehouses   

40     19  
  4     22  
  15  
  14   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased    

McLane Company   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Distribution centers/Offices     Distribution centers/Offices   

51     43   

Owned     Leased    

Other businesses:   

Other Manufacturing   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Offices/Warehouses  
  Retail     Retail/Showroom   

299     49  
  167     278  
  27  
  126   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased    

Non-U.S.    
      
  Various locations in over 60 countries  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Offices/Warehouses  
  Retail   

182     98  
  51     387  
  17   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Leased    

Other Service   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Training facilities/Hangars     Training facilities/Hangars     Offices/Warehouses  
  Offices/Warehouses     Plants  
  Plants     Retail   

21     123  
  52     140  
  25     6  
  6   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned    

Non-U.S.    
      
  Various locations in 30 countries  
      
    Offices/Warehouses/ Hangars/Training facilities     Offices/Warehouses/ Hangars/Training facilities   

20     108   

Owned     Leased    

Retailing   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Offices/Warehouses/Plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Retail  
  Retail   

25     19  
  33  
  545   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased    

Non-U.S.    
      
  Locations in 4 countries  
      
  Retail/Offices  

7  

Leased   

Finance   Financial  
  Products   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Offices/Warehouses  
  Leasing/Showroom/Retail  
  Leasing/Showroom/Retail  
  Housing communities   

35     1  
  16     48  
  223     233  
  27   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned    

Non-U.S.    
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  Leasing/Warehouses  

3  

Leased   
 
         27   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         We are
parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect our insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly through insurance
contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on our
financial condition or results of operations.       

Item 4.   
   Mine Safety Disclosures      
  Information regarding the Company s mine safety violations and other legal matters disclosed in accordance with Section 1503
(a) of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act is included in Exhibit 95 to this Form 10-K.       Executive Officers of the Registrant    
  Following is a list of the Registrant s named executive officers:   
   
    Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the Registrant, until the first meeting
of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his respective successor is chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also
serve as directors of the Registrant.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

      Part II    

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      
   Market Information    
  Berkshire s Class A and Class B common stock are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and
BRK.B. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated:       
     Shareholders       Berkshire had approximately 2,900 record holders of its Class A common stock and 19,300 record holders of its Class B common stock at February 14, 2014. Record owners included nominees holding
at least 450,000 shares of Class A common stock and 1,170,000,000 shares of Class B common stock on behalf of beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.       Dividends       Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.
      Common Stock Repurchase Program       In September 2011, Berkshire s Board of Directors ( Berkshire s Board ) approved a common stock repurchase program under which Berkshire may repurchase its Class A and Class B
shares at prices no higher than a 10% premium over the book value of the shares. In December 2012, Berkshire s Board amended the repurchase program by raising the price limit to no higher than a 20% premium over book value. Berkshire may
repurchase shares in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. Berkshire s Board authorization does not specify a maximum number of shares to be repurchased. However, repurchases will not be made if they would reduce
Berkshire s consolidated cash equivalent holdings below $20 billion. The repurchase program is expected to continue indefinitely and the amount of repurchases will depend entirely upon the level of cash available, the attractiveness of
investment and business opportunities either at hand or on the horizon, and the degree of discount of the market price relative to management s estimate of intrinsic value. The repurchase program does not obligate Berkshire to repurchase any
dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B shares and there is no expiration date to the program. There were no share purchases in 2013. In December 2012, Berkshire repurchased 9,475 Class A shares and 606,499 Class B shares for
approximately $1.3 billion through a privately negotiated transaction and market purchases.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data      
   Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years        (dollars in millions except per-share data)        

(1)  
    
     On February 12, 2010, BNSF became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Berkshire and BNSF s accounts are consolidated in Berkshire s
financial statements beginning on that date. From December 31, 2008 to February 12, 2010, Berkshire s investment in BNSF common stock was accounted for pursuant to the equity method.       

(2)  
    
     Investment gains/losses include realized gains and losses and non-cash other-than-temporary impairment losses. Derivative gains/losses include
significant amounts related to non-cash changes in the fair value of long-term contracts arising from short-term changes in equity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates, among other market factors. After-tax investment and derivative
gains/losses were $4.3 billion in 2013, $2.2 billion in 2012, $(521) million in 2011, $1.87 billion in 2010 and $486 million in 2009.           

(3)  
    
     Represents net earnings per equivalent Class A common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to 1/1,500 of such amount.
      
         30   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          Results of Operations       Net earnings attributable to Berkshire Hathaway
shareholders for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and exclude earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. Amounts are in millions.   
   
    Through our subsidiaries, we engage in a number of diverse business activities. Our operating businesses
are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by our corporate headquarters in
the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Our senior corporate management team participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief
Executive to head each of the operating businesses. It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire s corporate governance practices, including, but not limited to, communicating the appropriate  tone at the top 
messages to its employees and associates, monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed. The business segment data (Note 23 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements) should be read in conjunction with this discussion.      Our insurance businesses generated
after-tax earnings from underwriting in each of the last three years. Periodic earnings from insurance underwriting are significantly impacted by the magnitude of catastrophe loss events occurring during the period. In 2013, we incurred after-tax
losses of approximately $285 million from two catastrophe events in Europe. Insurance underwriting earnings in 2012 included after-tax losses of approximately $725 million from Hurricane Sandy. In 2011, underwriting earnings included after-tax
losses of approximately $1.7 billion from several different catastrophe events occurring in that year.      Our railroad and
utilities and energy businesses generated significant earnings in each of the last three years. Earnings from our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses in 2013 increased about 14.4% over 2012, which was partially attributable to bolt-on
business acquisitions completed during the last two years and reductions in earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests. Earnings from our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses in 2012 increased significantly over 2011 due primarily
to the impact of the acquisition of The Lubrizol Corporation ( Lubrizol ), which was completed on September 16, 2011.      In 2013 and 2012, after-tax investment and derivative gains were approximately $4.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. In each year, after-tax gains included gains from the reductions in estimated
liabilities under equity index put option contracts and dispositions of investments, partially offset by other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) losses. Investment gains in 2013 also included after-tax gains associated with the fair value
increases of certain investment securities where the gains or losses were reflected in periodic earnings. In 2012, after-tax investment and derivative gains also included gains from settlements and expirations of credit default contracts. In 2011,
after-tax investment and derivative losses were $521 million, reflecting after-tax losses of $1.2 billion related to increases in liabilities under our equity index put option contracts and OTTI losses of $590 million related to certain equity and
fixed maturity securities, partially offset by after-tax investment gains of $1.2 billion from the redemptions of our Goldman Sachs and General Electric Preferred Stock investments. We believe that investment and derivatives gains/losses are often
meaningless in terms of understanding our reported results or evaluating our economic performance. These gains and losses have caused and will likely continue to cause significant volatility in our periodic earnings.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
     
     Insurance Underwriting     
  We engage in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property/casualty, life and health risks. In primary insurance activities, we
assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, we assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or reinsurers have subjected
themselves to in their own insuring activities. Our insurance and reinsurance businesses are: (1) GEICO, (2) General Re, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group.
     Our management views insurance businesses as possessing two distinct operations   underwriting and investing.
Underwriting decisions are the responsibility of the unit managers; investing decisions, with limited exceptions, are the responsibility of Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett. Accordingly, we evaluate performance of underwriting
operations without any allocation of investment income. Underwriting results represent insurance premiums earned less insurance losses, benefits and underwriting expenses incurred.   
  The timing and amount of catastrophe losses can produce significant volatility in our periodic underwriting results, particularly with
respect to BHRG and General Re. For the purpose of this discussion, we considered catastrophe losses significant if the pre-tax losses incurred from a single event (or series of related events such as tornadoes) exceeded $75 million on a
consolidated basis. In 2013, we incurred pre-tax losses of $436 million related to two events in Europe. In 2012, we incurred pre-tax losses of approximately $1.1 billion attributable to Hurricane Sandy, which included approximately $490 million
incurred by GEICO. In 2011, we incurred pre-tax losses of approximately $2.6 billion, arising from nine events. The largest losses were from the earthquakes in Japan ($1.25 billion) and New Zealand ($650 million) in the first quarter. Additionally,
we incurred losses from several weather related events in the Pacific Rim and the U.S.      Our periodic underwriting results may
be affected significantly by changes in estimates for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including amounts established for occurrences in prior years. In 2011, we reduced estimated liabilities related to certain retroactive reinsurance
contracts which resulted in an increase in pre-tax underwriting earnings of approximately $875 million. These reductions were primarily due to lower than expected loss experience of one ceding company. Actual claim settlements and revised loss
estimates will develop over time, which will likely differ from the liability estimates recorded as of year-end (approximately $65 billion). Accordingly, the unpaid loss estimates recorded as of December 31, 2013 may develop upward or downward
in future periods, producing a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, to pre-tax earnings.      Our periodic
underwriting results may also include significant foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from the changes in the valuation of certain non-U.S. Dollar denominated reinsurance liabilities of our U.S. based subsidiaries as a result
of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Historically, currency exchange rates have been volatile and the resulting impact on our underwriting earnings has been relatively significant. These gains and losses are included in underwriting
expenses.      A key marketing strategy of our insurance businesses is the maintenance of extraordinary capital strength.
Statutory surplus of our insurance businesses was approximately $129 billion at December 31, 2013. This superior capital strength creates opportunities, especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into
insurance and reinsurance contracts specially designed to meet the unique needs of insurance and reinsurance buyers.   
  Underwriting results from our insurance businesses are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.   

32   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              
    GEICO       Through GEICO, we primarily write private passenger automobile insurance, offering coverages to insureds in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO s policies are marketed mainly by direct
response methods in which customers apply for coverage directly to the company via the Internet or over the telephone. This is a significant element in our strategy to be a low-cost auto insurer. In addition, we strive to provide excellent service
to customers, with the goal of establishing long-term customer relationships. GEICO s underwriting results are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.       
    Premiums written in 2013 were $19.1 billion, an increase of 11.4% over premiums written in 2012. Premiums
earned in 2013 increased approximately $1.8 billion (10.9%) compared to premiums earned in 2012. The growth in premiums written and earned reflected an increase in voluntary auto policies-in-force of 7.8% over the past year and, to a lesser
degree, higher average premiums per policy. The increase in policies-in-force reflected a 12.1% increase in voluntary auto new business sales. Voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31, 2013 were approximately 898,000 greater than at
December 31, 2012.      Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2013 increased $1.56 billion (12.2%) compared to
2012. The loss ratio (the ratio of losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred to premiums earned) was 76.7% in 2013 compared to 75.9% in 2012. In 2013, claims frequencies for property damage and collision coverages generally increased in the two
to four percent range compared to 2012. Physical damage claims severities increased in the three to four percent range in 2013. In addition, average bodily injury claims frequencies increased in the one to two percent range. Bodily injury claims
severities increased in the one to three percent range, although severities for personal injury protection coverage declined, primarily in Florida. In both 2013 and 2012, losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred were favorably impacted by
reductions of estimates for prior years  losses.      Underwriting expenses incurred in 2013 declined $170 million
(5.1%) compared with 2012. Underwriting expenses in 2012 were impacted by a change in U.S. GAAP concerning deferred policy acquisition costs ( DPAC ). DPAC represents the underwriting costs that are capitalized and expensed as
premiums are earned over the policy period. The new accounting standard, which we adopted on a prospective basis as of January 1, 2012, accelerates the timing of when certain underwriting costs are recognized in earnings. We estimate that
GEICO s underwriting expenses in 2012 would have been about $410 million less had we computed DPAC under the prior accounting standard. The effect of transitioning to this new accounting standard was completed in 2012. Excluding the effects of
the accounting change in 2012, the ratio of underwriting expenses to premiums earned (the  expense ratio ) in 2013 declined by approximately 0.4 percentage points from 2012.   
  Premiums earned in 2012 were approximately $16.7 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion (9.0%) over 2011. The growth in premiums
earned for voluntary auto was 9.0% as a result of a 6.5% increase in policies-in-force and an increase in average premium per policy as compared to 2011. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2012 increased slightly compared with 2011. Voluntary auto
policies-in-force at December 31, 2012 were approximately 704,000 greater than at December 31, 2011.      Losses and
loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2012 were $12.7 billion, an increase of $687 million (5.7%) over 2011. The loss ratio was 75.9% in 2012 and 78.2% in 2011. Losses and loss adjustment expenses in 2012 included $490 million related to
Hurricane Sandy. With the exception of Hurricane Sandy, GEICO s catastrophe losses tend to occur regularly and are normally not individually significant in amount.      Despite the losses from Hurricane Sandy, our loss ratio declined in 2012 as compared to 2011. Claims frequencies for property damage and collision coverages were down about one percent, comprehensive
coverage frequencies were down about ten percent, excluding Hurricane Sandy, and frequencies for bodily injury coverages were relatively unchanged. Physical   
         33   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              
    GEICO (Continued)             
damage severities increased in the two to four percent range and bodily injury severities increased in the one to three percent range from 2011.   
  Underwriting expenses incurred in 2012 increased $586 million (21.1%) compared with 2011. The increase was primarily the result of
the change in U.S. GAAP concerning DPAC discussed previously. We estimate that GEICO s underwriting expenses in 2012 would have been about $410 million less had we computed DPAC under the prior accounting standard. Based on that estimate,
GEICO s expense ratio in 2012 would have been less than in 2011.       General Re    
  Through General Re, we conduct a reinsurance business offering property and casualty and life and health coverages to clients worldwide.
We write property and casualty reinsurance in North America on a direct basis through General Reinsurance Corporation and internationally through Germany-based General Reinsurance AG and other wholly-owned affiliates. Property and casualty
reinsurance is also written in broker markets through Faraday in London. Life and health reinsurance is written in North America through General Re Life Corporation and internationally through General Reinsurance AG. General Re strives to generate
underwriting profits in essentially all of its product lines. Our management does not evaluate underwriting performance based upon market share and our underwriters are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. General Re s underwriting
results are summarized in the following table. Amounts are in millions.       
     Property/casualty       Property/casualty premiums written in 2013 were relatively unchanged while premiums earned increased $103 million (3.5%), versus the corresponding 2012 period. Excluding the effects of foreign currency
exchange rate changes, premiums written and premiums earned in 2013 increased $8 million (0.3%) and $83 million (2.9%), respectively, versus 2012. This was primarily due to increases in European treaty business. Price competition in most property
and casualty lines persists. Our underwriters continue to exercise discipline by declining offers to write business where prices are deemed inadequate. We remain prepared to increase premium volumes should market conditions improve.   
  Property/casualty operations in 2013 produced net underwriting gains of $148 million which consisted of $153 million of gains from our
property business and $5 million of losses from casualty/workers  compensation business. In 2013, property results included catastrophe losses of approximately $400 million attributable to a hailstorm ($280 million) and floods ($120 million) in
Europe. The timing and magnitude of catastrophe and large individual losses has produced and is expected to continue to produce significant volatility in periodic underwriting results. Property underwriting results also included gains from
reductions of $375 million in loss reserve estimates for prior years  loss events as a result of lower than expected losses reported from ceding companies. The underwriting loss from casualty/workers  compensation business included $141
million of losses attributable to discount accretion related to prior years  workers  compensation liabilities and net underwriting losses attributable to current year business, offset by reductions in estimated liabilities for prior year
losses.      Premiums written in 2012 increased $72 million (2.5%), while premiums earned declined $37 million (1.3%) from
2011. Excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange rate changes, premiums written increased $158 million (5.4%) compared to 2011 which reflected increased volume in most of our major markets around the globe. Before the effects of
currency exchange, premiums earned in 2012 increased $61 million (2.1%) over 2011 which was primarily attributable to an increase in European property treaty business.      Underwriting gains were $399 million in 2012 and consisted of $352 million of gains from our property business and $47 million of gains from casualty/workers  compensation business. Our property
results included $266 million of catastrophe losses primarily attributable to Hurricane Sandy ($226 million), an earthquake in Northern Italy and various tornadoes in the Midwest. The underwriting gains from casualty/workers  compensation
business included lower than expected losses from prior years    
         34   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              

    Property/casualty (Continued)    

casualty business, offset in part by discount accretion of workers  compensation liabilities and deferred charge amortization on retroactive reinsurance contracts.   
  Underwriting gains were $7 million in 2011 and consisted of a net underwriting gain of $127 million from casualty/workers 
compensation business substantially offset by a net underwriting loss of $120 million from property business. Our property results in 2011 included $861 million of catastrophe losses. The catastrophe losses were primarily attributable to earthquakes
in New Zealand ($235 million) and Japan ($189 million), as well as several weather related loss events in the United States, Europe and Australia, with losses ranging from about $30 million to $75 million per event. The underwriting gain of $127
million from casualty/workers  compensation business reflected overall reductions in loss reserve estimates for prior years  loss events, which was partially offset by discount accretion associated with workers  compensation
liabilities and deferred charge amortization.       Life/health    
  In 2013, premiums written decreased $11 million (0.4%), while premiums earned increased $11 million (0.4%) compared with 2012.
Adjusting for the effects of currency exchange rate changes, premiums written in 2013 increased $9 million (0.3%) over 2012 and premiums earned were $32 million (1.1%), higher than 2012. The increases, before foreign currency effects, were primarily
attributable to increased non-U.S. life business. Life/health operations in 2013 produced net underwriting gains of $135 million, which were driven by lower than expected mortality, offset in part by discount accretion in the long-term care
business.      Premiums written in 2012 increased $93 million (3.2%) and earned premiums increased $91 million
(3.2%) from 2011. Excluding the effects of foreign currency exchange rate changes, premiums written and earned in 2012 increased $239 million (8.2%) and $236 million (8.2%), respectively, compared to 2011. The increases in premiums written
and earned were primarily attributed to increased writings in non-U.S. life business. The underwriting results for 2012 were negatively impacted by a premium deficiency reserve that was established on the run off of the U.S. long-term care book of
business as well as greater than expected claims frequency and duration in the individual and group disability business in Australia. Underwriting results for 2011 included losses of $15 million attributable to the earthquake in Japan, offset by
lower than expected mortality in the life business.       Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group    
  Through BHRG, we underwrite excess-of-loss reinsurance and quota-share coverages on property and casualty risks for insurers and
reinsurers worldwide. BHRG s business includes catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance and excess primary insurance and facultative reinsurance for large or otherwise unusual property risks referred to as individual risk. BHRG also writes
retroactive reinsurance, which provides indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events. Multi-line property/casualty refers to various coverages written on both a quota-share and excess basis and includes a
20% quota-share contract with Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. ( Swiss Re ) covering substantially all of Swiss Re s property/casualty risks incepting between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2012. The Swiss Re quota-share
contract is now in run-off. BHRG s underwriting activities also include life reinsurance and traditional annuity businesses. BHRG s underwriting results are summarized in the table below. Amounts are in millions.   
   
    Catastrophe and individual risk premiums written were $807 million in 2013, $785 million in 2012, and
$720 million in 2011. The level of business written in a given period will vary significantly depending on changes in market conditions and   
         35   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)    
        
management s assessment of the adequacy of premium rates. We have constrained the volume of business written in recent years. However, we have the capacity and desire to write substantially
more business when appropriate pricing can be obtained.      Periodic underwriting results of our catastrophe and individual risk
business are subject to extraordinary volatility, depending on the timing and magnitude of significant catastrophe losses. In 2013, we incurred losses of $20 million from floods in Europe, while in 2012 we incurred losses of $96 million in
connection with Hurricane Sandy. In 2011, we incurred losses of approximately $800 million attributable to the earthquakes in Japan ($700 million) and New Zealand ($100 million).   
  Retroactive reinsurance policies provide indemnification of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events,
and related claims are generally expected to be paid over long periods of time. Premiums and limits of indemnification are often very large in amount. Coverages are generally subject to policy limits. Premiums earned in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were
attributed to a relatively small number of contracts. Premiums earned under retroactive reinsurance contracts in 2011 included approximately $1.7 billion from a reinsurance contract with Eaglestone Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of American
International Group, Inc. ( AIG ). Under the contract, we agreed to reinsure the bulk of AIG s U.S. asbestos liabilities. The agreement provides for a maximum limit of indemnification of $3.5 billion.   
  Underwriting results attributable to retroactive reinsurance include the recurring periodic amortization of deferred charges that are
established with respect to these contracts. At the inception of a contract, deferred charge assets are recorded as the excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate losses payable over the premiums earned. Deferred charge balances are subsequently
amortized over the estimated claims payment period using the interest method, which reflects estimates of the timing and amount of loss payments. The original estimates of the timing and amount of ultimate loss payments are periodically analyzed
against actual experience and revised based on an actuarial evaluation of the expected remaining losses. Amortization charges and deferred charge adjustments resulting from changes to the estimated timing and amount of future loss payments are
included as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.      The underwriting losses from retroactive policies of $321
million in 2013 and $201 million in 2012 primarily represented the amortization of deferred charges. In 2013, we increased undiscounted estimated liabilities by approximately $300 million related to prior years  contracts, which was partially
offset by increases in related deferred charge balances. In 2011, the net underwriting gain from retroactive reinsurance contracts of $645 million reflected the favorable impact of an $865 million reduction in the estimated liabilities related to an
adverse loss development contract with Swiss Re, which was attributable to better than expected loss experience.      Gross unpaid
losses from retroactive reinsurance contracts were approximately $17.7 billion as of December 31, 2013, $18.0 billion at December 31, 2012 and $18.8 billion at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2013 and 2012 unamortized deferred
charges related to BHRG s retroactive reinsurance contracts were approximately $4.25 billion and $3.90 billion, respectively.      Premiums earned from multi-line property/casualty business in 2013 declined $958 million (18%) compared to 2012, while premiums earned in 2012 increased approximately $1.1 billion (26%) over
2011. As previously noted, the Swiss Re 20% quota-share contract expired on December 31, 2012. As a result, premiums earned in 2013 from that contract declined $1.9 billion (57%) compared with 2012. Premiums earned under the Swiss Re
quota-share contract were $3.4 billion in 2012 and $2.9 billion in 2011. Premiums earned in 2013 from multi-line business, other than from the Swiss Re quota-share contract, increased $981 million (52%) over 2012, which was primarily
attributable to increased property quota-share business.      Multi-line property/casualty generated pre-tax underwriting gains of
$655 million in 2013 and $295 million in 2012. This business produced pre-tax underwriting losses of $338 million in 2011. Periodic underwriting results can be significantly impacted by catastrophe losses and foreign currency transaction gains or
losses associated with the changes in the valuation of certain reinsurance liabilities of U.S.-based subsidiaries (including liabilities arising under retroactive reinsurance contracts), which are denominated in foreign currencies.   
  Multi-line property/casualty underwriting results in 2013 included losses of $16 million from floods and a hailstorm in Europe.
Underwriting results in 2012 included estimated losses of $268 million from Hurricane Sandy. Catastrophe losses were approximately $933 million in 2011, which arose primarily from the earthquakes in Japan ($375 million) and New Zealand ($300
million) and from floods in Thailand ($150 million). The catastrophe losses in 2011 and 2012 arose primarily under the   
         36   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)              
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)    
        
Swiss Re quota-share contract. Underwriting results included foreign currency transaction losses of $28 million in 2013 and $123 million in 2012 and gains of $140 million in 2011.   
  Life and annuity premiums earned in 2013 increased $476 million (17%) over premiums earned in 2012. In 2013, premiums earned
included $1.7 billion received in connection with a new reinsurance contract which provides coverage of guaranteed minimum death benefits on a portfolio of variable annuity reinsurance contracts that have been in run-off for a number of years.
Premiums earned in 2013 also included $1.4 billion from traditional annuity insurance and reinsurance contracts that provide for streams of periodic payments in the future in exchange for upfront consideration. Annuity premiums in 2012 were $794
million. These increases were partially offset by the reversal of premiums previously earned (approximately $1.3 billion) under the Swiss Re Life   Health America Inc. ( SRLHA ) yearly renewable term life insurance contract as a
result of contract amendments in 2013. The amendments essentially commuted coverage with respect to a number of the underlying contracts in exchange for payments to SRLHA of $675 million.   
  The life and annuity business produced pre-tax underwriting gains of $379 million in 2013. The underwriting gains in 2013 included a
one-time pre-tax gain of $255 million attributable to the aforementioned amendments to the SRLHA contract as the reversal of premiums earned was more than offset by the reversal of life benefits incurred. The one-time underwriting gain related to
the SRLHA contract partially offset the significant underwriting losses incurred under that contract over the previous three years. Underwriting results in 2013 also included pre-tax gains of approximately $250 million related to the variable
annuity guarantee business written in 2013. The gains were primarily attributable to the impact of rising equity markets which lowered estimates of liabilities for guaranteed minimum benefits. The annuity business normally generates periodic
underwriting losses as a result of the periodic accretion of discounted annuity liabilities. Periodic underwriting results are also impacted by adjustments for mortality experience and changes in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to certain
of the contracts. Annuity business produced net underwriting losses of $178 million in 2013.      The life and annuity business
generated pre-tax underwriting losses of $190 million in 2012 and $700 million in 2011. Annuity business produced net underwriting losses of $159 million in 2012 and $118 million in 2011. In 2011, we also recorded a pre-tax underwriting loss of $642
million with respect to the SRLHA contract. Mortality rates under that contract persistently exceeded the assumptions we made at the inception of the contract. During the fourth quarter of 2011, after considerable internal actuarial analysis, our
management concluded that future mortality rates are expected to be greater than our original assumptions. As a result, we increased our estimated liabilities for future policyholder benefits to reflect the new assumptions.   
   Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group       The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ( BH Primary ) consists of a wide variety of independently managed insurance businesses. These businesses include: Medical Protective Company and Princeton
Insurance Company ( Princeton,  acquired in December 2011), providers of healthcare malpractice insurance coverages; National Indemnity Company s primary group, writers of commercial motor vehicle and general liability coverages; U.S.
Investment Corporation, whose subsidiaries underwrite specialty insurance coverages; a group of companies referred to internally as  Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies,  providers of commercial multi-line insurance, including
workers  compensation; Central States Indemnity Company, a provider of credit and disability insurance; Applied Underwriters, a provider of integrated workers  compensation solutions; and BoatU.S., a writer of insurance for owners of boats
and small watercraft. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we acquired GUARD Insurance Group ( GUARD ), a provider of workers  compensation and complimentary commercial property and casualty insurance coverage to small and mid-sized
businesses. In the second quarter of 2013, we formed Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance which concentrates on providing large scale capacity solutions for commercial property and casualty risks.   
  Premiums earned in 2013 by BH Primary aggregated $3,342 million, an increase of $1,079 million (48%) over 2012. Premiums earned in
2012 by BH Primary were $2,263 million, an increase of $514 million (29%) over 2011. The comparative increases in 2013 and 2012 reflected the impact of the GUARD acquisition in 2012 and Princeton at the end of 2011. In addition, Berkshire
Hathaway Homestate Companies  premiums earned increased $301 million in 2013 and $188 million in 2012 compared to the corresponding prior years, due primarily to significantly higher workers  compensation insurance volume. BH Primary
produced underwriting gains of $385 million in 2013, $286 million in 2012 and $242 million in 2011. The gains reflected a generally favorable claim environment over the three years, which resulted in loss ratios of 60% in 2013, 58% in 2012 and 52%
in 2011.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
     
     Insurance Investment Income     
  A summary of net investment income of our insurance operations follows. Amounts are in millions.   
   
    Investment income consists of interest and dividends earned on cash and investments of our insurance
businesses. Pre-tax investment income in 2013 increased $259 million (5.8%) compared to 2012. The increase was primarily attributable to increased dividends earned on equity investments, which reflected increased dividend rates for certain of
our larger equity holdings as well as increased overall investments in equity securities.      Beginning with the fourth quarter
of 2013, investment income no longer includes interest from our investments in Wrigley 11.45% subordinated notes ($4.4 billion par), as a result of the repurchase of those notes by Mars/Wrigley. In addition, other higher yielding fixed maturity
investments were redeemed in 2013 or will mature in 2014. Investment income in 2014 is expected to decline compared to 2013 given that investment opportunities currently available will likely generate considerably lower yields. We continue to hold
significant cash and cash equivalents earning very low yields. However, we believe that maintaining ample liquidity is paramount and we insist on safety over yield with respect to cash and cash equivalents.   
  Pre-tax investment income in 2012 declined $271 million (6%) compared to 2011. The decline reflected the redemptions in 2011 of our
investments in Goldman Sachs 10% Preferred Stock (insurance subsidiaries held 87% of the $5 billion aggregate investment) and in General Electric 10% Preferred Stock ($3 billion aggregate investment). Dividends earned by our insurance subsidiaries
from these investments were $420 million in 2011. Investment income in 2012 reflected dividends earned for the full year from our investment in September 2011 in Bank of America 6% Preferred Stock (insurance subsidiaries hold 80% of the $5 billion
aggregate investment) and increased dividend rates with respect to several of our common stock investments.      Invested assets
derive from shareholder capital and reinvested earnings as well as net liabilities under insurance contracts or  float.  The major components of float are unpaid losses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and
other liabilities to policyholders less premium and reinsurance receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs. Float approximated $77 billion at December 31, 2013, $73
billion at December 31, 2012, and $70 billion at December 31, 2011. The cost of float was negative over the last three years as our insurance business generated underwriting gains in each year.   
  A summary of cash and investments held in our insurance businesses as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 follows. Other investments
include investments in The Dow Chemical Company and Bank of America Corporation. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Amounts are in millions.       
 
         38   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Insurance Investment Income    (Continued)              
   Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2013 were as follows. Amounts are
in millions.       
    U.S. government obligations are rated AA+ or Aaa by the major rating agencies and approximately 86% of
all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed securities were rated AA or higher. Non-investment grade securities represent securities that are rated below BBB- or Baa3. Foreign government
securities include obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by national or provincial government entities.   
    Railroad ( Burlington Northern Santa Fe )     
  Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation ( BNSF ) operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America with
approximately 32,500 route miles of track in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. BNSF s major business groups are classified by product shipped and include consumer products, coal, industrial products and agricultural products. Earnings of
BNSF are summarized below (in millions).       
    Revenues for 2013 were approximately $22.0 billion, an increase of $1.2 billion (5.7%) over 2012.
The overall year-to-date increase in revenues reflected a 4.5% increase in cars/units handled and a slight increase in average revenue per car/unit, attributable to rates. In 2013, BNSF generated higher revenues from industrial products, consumer
products and coal, partially offset by lower revenues from agricultural products.      In 2013, industrial products revenues of
$5.7 billion increased 14% versus 2012, driven by an 11% increase in volume, reflecting significantly higher petroleum products volumes. Consumer products revenues in 2013 were $7.0 billion, an increase of 6% over 2012 that was primarily
attributable to volume increases from domestic intermodal business and higher export demand. Coal revenues were $5.0 billion in 2013, an increase of 2.6% over 2012, which was attributable to increased volume. The volume increase reflected increased
coal demand as a result of higher natural gas prices and reduced utility stockpiles, partially offset by severe weather issues impacting service levels. In 2013, agricultural products revenues of $3.6 billion declined 4% versus 2012 due to volume
declines, which were mainly attributable to lower grain exports as a result of the drought conditions in the U.S. in 2012 and strong global competition.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Railroad ( Burlington Northern Santa Fe )    (Continued)        
     
   Revenues (and revenues per car/unit) in each period include fuel surcharges to customers
under programs intended to recover incremental fuel costs when fuel prices exceed threshold fuel prices. Surcharges vary by product/commodity, and therefore amounts earned in a given period are impacted by business mix and volume as well as fuel
costs. Fuel surcharges increased 3% in 2013 as compared to 2012.      Operating expenses in 2013 were approximately $15.4 billion,
an increase of $522 million (3.5%) compared to 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2013 increased $146 million (3.2%) in 2013 as compared to 2012, reflecting volume-related cost increases and wage inflation. In 2013, fuel expenses
increased $44 million (1%) versus 2012, as the impact of higher volume was partially offset by lower average fuel prices. Purchased services expenses in 2013 increased 2% versus 2012, due primarily to volume-related costs, including purchased
transportation for BNSF Logistics LLC, a wholly-owned, third-party logistics business. In 2013, equipment rents, materials and other expenses increased $204 million (13%) over 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher property taxes, crew
travel costs, derailment-related costs and locomotive material expenses in 2013. Interest expense in 2013 increased $106 million (17%) compared to 2012 due to higher average outstanding debt balances.   
  Revenues in 2012 were approximately $20.8 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion (7%) over 2011. Overall, the revenue increase in 2012
reflected higher average revenues per car/unit of approximately 4% as well as a 2% increase in cars/units handled ( volume ). Revenues in each period include fuel surcharges to customers under programs intended to recover incremental fuel
costs when fuel prices exceed threshold fuel prices. Fuel surcharges in 2012 increased 6% over 2011, and are reflected in average revenue per car/unit.      The increase in overall volume during 2012 included increases in consumer products (4%) and industrial products (13%), partially offset by declines in coal (6%) and agricultural products (3%).
The consumer products volume increase was primarily attributable to higher domestic intermodal and automotive volume. Industrial products volume increased primarily as a result of increased shipments of petroleum and construction products. The
decline in coal unit volume in 2012 was attributed to lower coal demand as a result of low natural gas prices and high utility stockpiles. Agricultural product volume declined in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting lower wheat and corn shipments for
export partially offset by higher soybean and U.S. corn shipments.      Operating expenses in 2012 increased $588 million
(4%) compared to 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2012 increased $190 million (4%) over 2011 due to the increased volume as well as wage inflation, partially offset by increased productivity and lower weather-related costs. Fuel
expenses in 2012 increased $192 million (4.5%) due to higher fuel prices and increased volume, partially offset by improved fuel efficiency. Fuel efficiency in 2011 was negatively impacted by severe weather conditions. Purchased services costs
in 2012 increased $156 million (7%) compared to 2011 due primarily to increased volume, increased purchased transportation services of BNSF Logistics and increased equipment maintenance costs, partially offset by lower weather-related costs.
Interest expense in 2012 increased $63 million (11%) versus 2011, due principally to higher average outstanding debt balances.        Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )        We hold an 89.8%
ownership interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ), which operates an international energy business. MidAmerican s domestic regulated utility interests are currently comprised of four companies, PacifiCorp,
MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ), as well as Nevada Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power Company (together,  NV Energy ). NV Energy was acquired on December 19, 2013. MidAmerican also owns two domestic regulated
interstate natural gas pipeline companies. In Great Britain, MidAmerican subsidiaries operate two regulated electricity distribution businesses referred to as Northern Powergrid. The rates that our regulated businesses charge customers for energy
and services are based in large part on the costs of business operations, including a return on capital, and are subject to regulatory approval. To the extent these operations are not allowed to include such costs in the approved rates, operating
results will be adversely affected. In addition, MidAmerican also operates a diversified portfolio of independent power projects and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm and franchise network in the United States.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )    (Continued)        
     
   Revenues and earnings of MidAmerican are summarized below. Revenues and earnings of NV
Energy since December 19, 2013 are included in other. Amounts are in millions.       
    PacifiCorp operates a regulated utility business in portions of several Western states, including Utah,
Oregon and Wyoming. PacifiCorp s revenues in 2013 were $5.2 billion, an increase of $265 million (5%) compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher retail revenues of $337 million, partially offset by lower renewable energy
credits ($74 million). The increase in retail revenues reflected higher prices approved by regulators and higher retail customer loads. PacifiCorp s earnings before corporate interest and taxes ( EBIT ) in 2013 were $982 million, an
increase of $245 million (33%) compared to 2012. The comparative increase in EBIT was primarily due to charges of $165 million in 2012 related to litigation, fire and other damage claims, and, to a lesser extent, the increase in revenues.
Before the impact of the aforementioned claims, pre-tax earnings in 2013 as a percentage of revenues were relatively unchanged from 2012.      In 2012, PacifiCorp s revenues increased $311 million (7%) over revenues in 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher retail revenues of $244 million, which were due to higher prices
approved by regulators across most of PacifiCorp s jurisdictions and to a lesser degree from increased revenues from renewable energy credits. In 2012, PacifiCorp also experienced generally higher customer load in Utah, which was offset by
lower industrial customer load in Wyoming and Oregon, attributable to certain large customers electing to self-generate their own power and by lower residential customer load in Oregon as a result of unfavorable weather. EBIT in 2012 declined $34
million (4%) compared to the corresponding 2011 period. EBIT in 2012 was negatively impacted by the aforementioned litigation, fire and other claims ($165 million), which more than offset the increase in operating earnings from higher revenues
and otherwise higher operating margins.      MEC operates a regulated utility business primarily in Iowa and Illinois. MEC s
revenues in 2013 increased $178 million (5%) over 2012. Revenues in 2013 reflected higher regulated electric and natural gas revenues and lower nonregulated and other revenues. In 2013, regulated retail electric operating revenues increased
$82 million, while regulated natural gas revenues increased $165 million compared to 2012. The increase in regulated electric revenues was primarily due to higher regulatory rates in Iowa and Illinois and increases in retail customer load. The
increase in regulated natural gas revenues was primarily due to higher retail volumes and increases in recoveries through adjustment clauses as a result of a higher average per-unit cost of gas sold. Nonregulated and other operating revenues in 2013
declined $67 million in comparison with 2012 due primarily to lower electricity volumes and prices. MEC s EBIT in 2013 declined $6 million (3%) compared to 2012. The decline in EBIT was due to lower regulated and nonregulated electric
operating earnings, partially offset by higher natural gas earnings.      MEC s revenues in 2012 declined $255 million
(7%) compared to 2011, reflecting declines in natural gas revenues of $110 million and nonregulated and other operating revenues of $178 million. In 2012, MEC s regulated electric revenues increased 2% to approximately $1.7 billion. The
decline in natural gas revenues reflected lower average per-unit cost of natural gas sold and lower volumes. The nonregulated and other operating revenues decline was due to generally lower electricity and natural gas prices. MEC s EBIT in 2012
declined $43 million (15%) compared to 2011 due primarily to increased depreciation expense of $56 million and higher general and administrative expenses, partially offset by lower interest expense.   
         41   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )    (Continued)        
     
   In 2013, natural gas pipelines  revenues and EBIT were $971 million and $385
million, respectively, which were relatively unchanged from 2012. In 2012, natural gas pipelines  revenues and EBIT declined $15 million and $5 million, respectively, compared to 2011. In 2012, natural gas revenues increased from expansion
projects and from higher transportation and storage rates in certain markets, which were more than offset by lower volumes of gas sales and the impact of contract expirations. In 2012, EBIT also reflected increased depreciation expense, partially
offset by lower interest expense.      In 2013, Northern Powergrid revenues declined $10 million (1%) compared to 2012. EBIT
in 2013 was $362 million, a decline of $67 million versus 2012. EBIT in 2013 was negatively impacted by fourth quarter rebates to customers and higher regulatory rate provisions in 2013, which reduced revenues, and from higher distribution operating
expenses and the foreign currency translation effect of a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the U.K. Pound Sterling. Operating expenses in 2013 included increased pension costs and higher depreciation expenses. EBIT in 2013 also included a $9 million
loss from the write-off of hydrocarbon well exploration costs.      Northern Powergrid s revenues in 2012 increased $20
million (2%) while EBIT declined $40 million (9%) compared to 2011. In 2012, revenues were negatively impacted by currency-related declines from a stronger U.S. Dollar. Excluding currency related impacts, distribution revenues increased
$28 million in 2012, reflecting higher tariff rates ($76 million), partially offset by the impact of higher regulatory provisions in 2011 ($55 million). Northern Powergrid s EBIT in 2012 was negatively affected by increases in pension
expense ($44 million) and distribution operating expenses ($21 million), which more than offset the increase in distribution revenues.      Real estate brokerage revenues in 2013 increased $489 million (37%) over 2012, while EBIT increased $57 million (70%) versus 2012. The increases in revenues and EBIT were attributable to
increases in closed brokerage transactions and higher average home sales prices from existing business and the impact of businesses acquired during the last two years. Real estate brokerage revenues in 2012 increased $326 million (32%) and EBIT
increased $43 million (110%) over 2011. The revenue increase included $123 million from businesses acquired in 2012. The increase in revenues in 2012 also reflected a 16% increase in closed sales transactions and higher average home sale prices
from existing businesses. The increase in real estate brokerage EBIT in 2012 reflected the impact of business acquisitions in 2012 as well as the aforementioned increase in closed sales transactions.   
  MidAmerican s other activities primarily consist of a portfolio of independent power projects, including solar and wind-powered
electricity generation projects placed in service in late 2012 and throughout 2013. In 2013, other activities also included the results of NV Energy since the December 19, 2013 acquisition date. The increase in revenues from other activities in
2013 was $81 million, which was primarily attributable to revenues from the new solar and wind-powered facilities, partially offset by the impact of one-time customer refunds issued by NV Energy and impairment losses associated with
MidAmerican s interests in certain geothermal electricity generation projects. EBIT in 2013 from other activities declined $87 million compared to 2012, as the impacts of the aforementioned losses associated with geothermal projects and NV
Energy acquisition costs and customer refunds, more than offset the increase in earnings from the new solar and wind-powered electricity generation projects.      Corporate interest includes interest on the unsecured debt issued by MidAmerican Energy Holding Company. Corporate interest expense in 2014 is expected to increase compared to recent years as a result of
new borrowings in connection with the NV Energy acquisition, including borrowings from certain Berkshire insurance subsidiaries.      MidAmerican s consolidated income tax expense as percentages of pre-tax earnings were 7% in 2013, 9% in 2012 and 18% in 2011. In each year, MidAmerican s utility subsidiaries generated
significant production tax credits. In addition, pre-tax earnings of Northern Powergrid are taxed at lower rates in the U.K. and each year also benefitted from reductions of deferred income taxes as a result of lower enacted corporate income tax
rates in the U.K.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
     
     Manufacturing, Service and Retailing     
  A summary of revenues and earnings of our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses follows. Amounts are in millions.
      
     Marmon       Through Marmon, we operate approximately 160 manufacturing and service businesses within eleven diverse business sectors that are further organized in three separate companies. Those companies and
constituent sectors are:       

Company    
      
     Sector     

Marmon Engineered Industrial   Metal Components ( Engineered Components )  
      
  Electrical   Plumbing Products Distribution, Distribution Services, Industrial Products   

Marmon Natural Resources   Transportation Services ( Natural Resources )  
      
  Transportation Services   Engineered Products, Engineered Wire   Cable, Crane Services   

Marmon Retail   End User Technologies ( Retail Technologies )  
      
  Highway Technologies, Water Treatment, Retail Store Fixtures, Food Service Equipment, Retail Home Improvement Products   
    Marmon s consolidated revenues in 2013 were approximately $7.0 billion, 2.7% below 2012, with almost
60% of the decline associated with metals price deflation. Consolidated pre-tax earnings were $1.2 billion, an increase of 3.4% over 2012. Pre-tax earnings in 2013 as a percentage of revenues was 16.9% in 2013 compared with 15.9% in 2012. This
margin improvement is a direct result of Marmon s focus on niche products/markets, product/service innovation and improvement in operating efficiency and productivity. The pre-tax earnings information in the paragraphs that follow, exclude
unallocated corporate expenses of $30 million in 2013 and $34 million in 2012.      Engineered Components  2013 revenues were
$2.3 billion, a decline of 5% as compared to 2012. The revenue decline was primarily due to the impact of lower metals (steel and copper) costs, which are passed on to customers with minimal margin, as well as reductions in volume in Distribution
Services, partially offset by increased volume in the Industrial Products sector. Engineered Components  pre-tax earnings were $204 million in 2013, representing a decline of 4% from earnings in 2012. The decline in pre-tax earnings in 2013
reflected reduced margins in the Distribution Services sector, attributable to lower sales volumes and steel price reductions. Electrical   Plumbing Products sector 2013 pre-tax earnings increased over 2012, despite lower revenues.
Restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2013 have provided the impetus for improved pre-tax earnings in this sector. Industrial Products sector pre-tax earnings increase in 2013 over 2012 was driven by higher volumes and improved product mix.
     Natural Resources  revenues were $2.5 billion in 2013, a decline of 3% compared to 2012. The decrease in revenues was
attributable to several non-recurring large prior year projects in the Transportation Services   Engineered Products ( TSEP ) and Engineered Wire and Cable sectors and lower revenues from external tank car sales, partially offset
by higher rail leasing revenues attributable to higher lease rates and new tank car fleet additions. Natural Resources  pre-tax earnings were $718 million in 2013, an increase of 3% over 2012. Earnings in 2013 reflected higher rail leasing
rates and new tank car fleet   
         43   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        

Marmon (Continued)          
   
additions which more than offset the prior year higher project revenues, higher railcar repair costs and lower sales volume of external tank cars.   
  Retail Technologies  revenues were $2.2 billion in 2013, unchanged from 2012. Revenues increased in 2013 in Highway
Technologies  driven by growth in the automotive clutch and heavy duty truck axle businesses, Retail Store Fixtures, as a result of a significant store fixture display product rollout for a key customer and Water Treatment, driven by growth in
residential products. These revenue increases were offset by a revenue decrease at Retail Home Improvement Products due to a planned reduction in revenues from lower margin products. Retail Technologies  pre-tax earnings in 2013 were $284
million which represented an increase of 8% over 2012. The pre-tax earnings increases were primarily due to revenue growth in the Highway Technologies, Retail Store Fixtures and Water Treatment sectors, as well as cost savings related to 2012
restructuring actions taken in the Retail Store Fixtures sector.      Marmon s consolidated revenues in 2012 were $7.2
billion, an increase of 3.6% over 2011. Consolidated pre-tax earnings were $1.1 billion in 2012, an increase of 14.6% over 2011. In 2012 pre-tax earnings as a percentage of revenues were 15.9% compared to 14.3% in 2011.   
  Engineered Components  2012 revenues were $2.4 billion, a decline of 2% as compared to 2011. The revenue decline was primarily due
to lower volume and copper pricing in the Electrical   Plumbing Products sector driven by lower HVAC demand and continued softness in commercial construction in 2012, offset in part by a 2012 bolt-on acquisition and increased market share
in certain market niches in the Distribution Services sector. Engineered Components  pre-tax earnings were $214 million, an increase of 3% from 2011. The increase in pre-tax earnings in 2012 reflected the growth in market share and higher
margins in the Distribution Services sector, partially offset by the revenue declines in the Electrical   Plumbing Products sector.      Natural Resources  revenues were $2.6 billion in 2012, an increase of 10% compared to 2011. The increase in revenues was attributable to bolt-on acquisitions in the Crane Services and Engineered
Wire   Cable sectors in 2012 and growth in the TSEP sector. Higher rail fleet utilization and higher lease rates, offset in part by lower external tank car sales provided most of TSEP s growth, with sulfur equipment installations in
the Middle East providing the balance. Natural Resources  pre-tax earnings were $695 million in 2012, an increase of 23% from earnings in 2011. Earnings in 2012 reflected the impact of the aforementioned bolt-on acquisitions, higher rail fleet
utilization and lease rates and Middle East projects, as well cost savings relating to restructuring actions taken in 2011 in the Engineered Wire   Cable sector.      Retail Technologies  revenues were $2.2 billion in 2012, an increase of 3% compared to 2011. The 2012 revenue increase is due to the full year impact of a bolt-on acquisition made in December 2011
and growth in Highway Technologies commercial and heavy haul trailer products along with increased growth in projects for the Canadian Tar Sands area in the Water Treatment sector. These increases were partially offset by a decline in the Retail
Store Fixtures sector due to reduced volume from its major customer, which resulted in a 14% decline in revenues. Retail Technologies  pre-tax 2012 earnings were $262 million which represented an increase of 3% over 2011. The pre-tax earnings
increase was primarily due to revenue growth in the Highway Technologies and Water Treatment sectors offset in part by the decline in the Retail Store Fixtures sector previously discussed.   
   McLane Company       Through McLane, we operate a wholesale distribution business that provides grocery and non-food products to retailers, convenience stores and restaurants. Through its subsidiaries, McLane also operates as
a wholesale distributor of distilled spirits, wine and beer. On August 24, 2012, McLane acquired Meadowbrook Meat Company, Inc. ( MBM ). MBM, based in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, is a large customized foodservice distributor for
national restaurant chains with annual revenues of approximately $6 billion. MBM s revenues and earnings are included in McLane s results beginning as of the acquisition date. McLane s grocery and foodservice businesses are marked by
high sales volume and very low profit margins. McLane s significant customers include Wal-Mart, 7-Eleven and Yum! Brands. Approximately 25% of McLane s consolidated revenues in 2013 were attributable to Wal-Mart. A curtailment of
purchasing by Wal-Mart or another of its significant customers could have a material adverse impact on McLane s periodic revenues and earnings.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        

McLane Company (Continued)    
     
   McLane s revenues in 2013 were approximately $45.9 billion, representing an
increase of approximately $8.5 billion (22.7%) over revenues in 2012. The increase in revenues in 2013 reflected the impact of MBM, as well as year-to-date revenue increases ranging from 10% to 15% in the grocery, other foodservice and beverage
businesses. Revenues of each of these businesses in 2013 included the impact of new customers added over the past two years. McLane s pre-tax earnings in 2013 increased $83 million (20.6%) over earnings in 2012. The increase in 2013
pre-tax earnings reflected the increases in revenues, including the impact of the MBM acquisition, and a gain from the sale of its Brazil-based logistics business, partially offset by slightly lower operating margins.   
  McLane s revenues were approximately $37.4 billion in 2012, an increase of about $4.2 billion (12.5%) over 2011. The increase
in revenues was attributable to the MBM acquisition, as well as 6% to 8% revenue increases in McLane s grocery, foodservice and beverage business units. The increases in grocery and foodservice revenues reflected manufacturer price increases as
well as increased volume. Pre-tax earnings in 2012 were $403 million, an increase of $33 million (9%) over 2011. The overall increase in earnings reflected the increases in revenues as pre-tax margin rates were relatively unchanged.   
   Other manufacturing       Our other manufacturing businesses include several manufacturers of building products (Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, Johns Manville, Shaw and MiTek) and apparel (led by Fruit of the Loom which
includes Russell athletic apparel and Vanity Fair Brands women s intimate apparel). Also included in this group are Lubrizol Corporation ( Lubrizol ), a specialty chemical manufacturer that we acquired on September 16, 2011, IMC
International Metalworking Companies ( Iscar ), an industry leader in the metal cutting tools business with operations worldwide, Forest River, a leading manufacturer of leisure vehicles and CTB, a manufacturer of equipment and systems for
the livestock and agricultural industries.      Other manufacturing revenues in 2013 increased $2.3 billion (8.7%) to $29.1
billion. Forest River generated revenues of $3.3 billion in 2013, a 24% increase over 2012. The increase reflected a 17% volume increase and higher average sales prices, attributable to price and product mix changes. Revenues in 2013 from our
building products businesses increased 8% to about $9.6 billion. These businesses benefitted from the generally improved residential and commercial construction markets. Apparel revenues in 2013 increased 3.5% to about $4.3 billion. Our other
businesses in this group produced revenues in 2013 of $11.9 billion in the aggregate, an increase of about 8% over 2012. Most of the increase in revenues of these other businesses was attributable to bolt-on acquisitions during the last two years.
     Pre-tax earnings of our other manufacturing businesses in 2013 were $3.6 billion, an increase of $289 million
(8.7%) versus 2012. Increased earnings were generated by Forest River (32%), building products businesses (13%) and apparel businesses (25%) compared to 2012. Pre-tax earnings of Iscar and Lubrizol were roughly unchanged from 2012. In
addition, bolt-on acquisitions during the last two years contributed to the overall increased earnings.      Revenues of our other
manufacturing businesses in 2012 were approximately $26.8 billion, an increase of approximately $5.6 billion (26%) over 2011. Excluding Lubrizol, revenues in 2012 grew 6% over 2011. Revenues of Forest River increased 27%, which was attributable
to increased volume and average sales prices. Revenues from building products and apparel businesses increased 4% and 5%, respectively, as compared with 2011. However, revenues of Iscar and CTB (before the impact of bolt-on acquisitions) declined
compared to 2011 as a result of weakness in demand, particularly in non-U.S. markets.      Pre-tax earnings of our other
manufacturing businesses were approximately $3.3 billion in 2012, an increase of $922 million (38%) over earnings in 2011. Excluding the impact of Lubrizol, earnings of our other manufacturing businesses in 2012 increased 6% compared to
2011. The increase was primarily attributable to increased earnings from building products, apparel and Forest River, partially offset by lower earnings from Iscar, CTB and Scott Fetzer. In 2012, our Shaw carpet and flooring business benefited from
the impact of price increases at the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012, as well as from relatively stable raw material costs, which resulted in higher margins. Our apparel businesses benefitted from past pricing actions and stabilizing raw
material costs. On the other hand, our other businesses that manufacture products that are primarily for commercial and industrial customers, particularly those with significant business in overseas markets, such as CTB and Iscar, were negatively
impacted in 2012 by slowing economic conditions in certain of those markets.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        
     
    Other service    
  Our other service businesses include NetJets, the world s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation
aircraft and FlightSafety, a provider of high technology training to operators of aircraft. Among the other businesses included in this group are: TTI, a leading electronic components distributor; Business Wire, a leading distributor of corporate
news, multimedia and regulatory filings; Dairy Queen, which licenses and services a system of over 6,300 stores that offer prepared dairy treats and food; the Buffalo News; the BH Media Group ( BH Media ), which includes the Omaha
World-Herald, as well as 29 other daily newspapers and numerous other publications; and businesses that provide management and other services to insurance companies.      Revenues of our other service businesses in 2013 were $9.0 billion, an increase of $821 million (10%) over revenues in 2012. In 2013, revenues of NetJets increased $288 million (7.5%), driven by
higher sales of fractional aircraft shares, while TTI s revenues increased $255 million (11%) over 2012. Revenues of BH Media increased $207 million (66%), attributable to the impact of business acquisitions during the last two years.
Pre-tax earnings of $1.1 billion in 2013 increased $130 million (13%) compared to 2012. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to BH Media, FlightSafety, TTI and NetJets. The earnings increase of BH Media was due to bolt-on
acquisitions during the last two years. TTI s earnings increased 10% in 2013 versus 2012, due to higher sales and changes in product mix. TTI continues to be impacted by price competition, which pressures overall gross sales margins.
FlightSafety s earnings increased 11% in 2013, reflecting increased training revenues and relatively unchanged operating expenses. In 2013, NetJets  earnings increased 7% as improved flight operations margins, fractional sales margins and
reduced net financing costs more than offset the increase in comparative aircraft value impairment charges.      Revenues of our
other service businesses in 2012 were approximately $8.2 billion, an increase of $737 million (10%) over 2011. The increase in revenues in 2012 was primarily attributable to the inclusion of the BH Media Group and a comparative revenue increase
from TTI, principally due to its bolt-on business acquisitions in 2012. Pre-tax earnings of $966 million in 2012 declined $11 million (1%) from earnings in 2011. Earnings of NetJets and FlightSafety in 2012 were relatively unchanged from 2011.
Earnings of other service businesses in 2012 included earnings of the BH Media Group, which were more than offset by lower earnings from TTI due primarily to weaker customer demand and intensifying price competition over the past year.   
   Retailing    
  Our retailing operations consist of four home furnishings businesses (Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey, Star Furniture and
Jordan s), three jewelry businesses (Borsheims, Helzberg and Ben Bridge), See s Candies; Pampered Chef, a direct seller of high quality kitchen tools; and Oriental Trading Company ( OTC ), a direct retailer of party supplies,
school supplies and toys and novelties, which we acquired on November 27, 2012.      Revenues of our retailing businesses in
2013 were $4.3 billion, an increase of $573 million (15%) over 2012. Pre-tax earnings in 2013 of these businesses increased $70 million (23%) as compared to earnings in 2012. The comparative increases in revenues and earnings were
primarily attributable to the inclusion of OTC for the full year in 2013. Otherwise, earnings of the home furnishings and jewelry retail groups increased in 2013, while earnings of Pampered Chef and See s Candies declined.   
  Revenues and pre-tax earnings in 2012 from the retailing businesses increased $142 million (4%) and $5 million (2%), respectively,
over revenues and earnings in 2011. Increased revenues from the home furnishings and jewelry businesses as well as the inclusion of OTC from its acquisition date were partially offset by lower revenues from Pampered Chef. Increased earnings of our
home furnishings retailers were substantially offset by lower earnings from our jewelry businesses and Pampered Chef.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
     
     Finance and Financial Products     
  Our finance and financial products businesses include manufactured housing and finance (Clayton Homes), transportation equipment leasing
(XTRA), furniture leasing (CORT) as well as various miscellaneous financing activities. A summary of revenues and earnings from our finance and financial products businesses follows. Amounts are in millions.   
   
    Clayton Homes  revenues and pre-tax earnings in 2013 increased $185 million (6%) and $161
million (63%), respectively, compared to 2012. In 2013, Clayton Homes  pre-tax earnings benefitted from increased home sales, lower loan loss provisions and an increase in net interest income, as lower interest expense more than offset
reductions in interest income on loan portfolios. Home unit sales increased 9% in 2013. Loan loss provisions in 2013 were lower reflecting comparatively lower foreclosures volume and loss rates. Clayton Homes  manufactured housing business
continues to operate at a competitive disadvantage compared to traditional single family housing markets, which receive significant interest rate subsidies from the U.S. Government through government agency insured mortgages. For the most part,
these subsidies are not available to factory built homes. Nevertheless, Clayton Homes remains the largest manufactured housing business in the United States and we believe that it will continue to operate profitably, even under the prevailing
conditions.      Clayton Homes  pre-tax earnings in 2012 increased $101 million (66%) over earnings in 2011. Earnings in
2012 were impacted by the increased unit sales, which improved manufacturing and other operating efficiencies. Earnings also benefited from reduced insurance claims and a decline in credit losses. The decline in interest income on loan portfolios
was more than offset by interest expense attributable to a decline in borrowings and lower interest rates.      Pre-tax earnings
of CORT and XTRA in 2013 increased $17 million (11%) to $165 million, as compared to 2012. The increase reflected increased lease revenues and earnings of XTRA, which benefitted from increases in working units and average rental rates,
relatively stable operating expenses and a foreign currency related gain in 2013.      Pre-tax earnings of CORT and XTRA in 2012
were $148 million, a decline of $7 million (5%) versus 2011. In 2012, CORT s earnings increased over 2011 due to a 5% increase in rental income and relatively stable selling, general and administrative expenses, which improved operating
margins. In 2012, earnings from XTRA declined primarily due to increased depreciation expense and lower foreign currency exchange gains.      Other earnings include interest and dividends from a portfolio of fixed maturity and equity investments and our share of the earnings of a commercial mortgage servicing business in which we own a 50%
interest. Other earnings previously included interest income from a relatively small number of long-held commercial real estate loans. These loans were repaid in full during the third and fourth quarters of 2012. In addition, other earnings includes
income from interest rate spreads charged to Clayton Homes on borrowings by a Berkshire financing subsidiary that are used to fund loans to Clayton Homes and from guaranty fees charged to NetJets. Corresponding expenses are included in Clayton
Homes  and NetJets  results. Guaranty fees charged to NetJets were $11 million in 2013, $30 million in 2012 and $41 million in 2011 and interest spreads charged to Clayton Homes were $78 million in 2013, $90 million in 2012 and $100
million in 2011.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
     
     Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses     
  A summary of investment and derivative gains and losses and other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments follows. Amounts are
in millions.       
    Investment gains/losses arise primarily from the sale or redemption of investments or when investments
are carried at fair value with the periodic changes in fair values recorded in earnings. The timing of gains or losses from sales or redemptions can have a material effect on periodic earnings. Investment gains and losses usually have minimal impact
on the periodic changes in our consolidated shareholders  equity since most of our investments are recorded at fair value with the unrealized gains and losses included in shareholders  equity as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income.      We believe the amount of investment gains/losses included in earnings in any given period typically has
little analytical or predictive value. Our decisions to sell securities are not motivated by the impact that the resulting gains or losses will have on our reported earnings. Although our management does not consider investment gains and losses in a
given period as necessarily meaningful or useful in evaluating periodic earnings, we are providing information to explain the nature of such gains and losses when they are reflected in earnings.   
  Pre-tax investment gains/losses in 2013 were $4,065 million. Investment gains in 2013 included approximately $2.1 billion related to our
investments in General Electric and Goldman Sachs common stock warrants and Wrigley subordinated notes. Beginning in 2013, the unrealized gains or losses associated with the warrants were included in earnings. These warrants were exercised in
October 2013 on a cashless basis in exchange for shares of General Electric and Goldman Sachs common stock with an aggregate value of approximately $2.4 billion. The Wrigley subordinated notes were repurchased for cash of $5.08 billion, resulting in
a pre-tax investment gain of $680 million. Pre-tax investment gains were approximately $1.5 billion in 2012 and were primarily attributable to sales of equity securities. Investment gains in 2011 included aggregate pre-tax gains of $1.8 billion from
the redemptions of our Goldman Sachs and General Electric preferred stock investments.      In each of the three years ending
December 31, 2013, we recognized OTTI losses on certain of our equity and fixed maturity investments. OTTI losses on fixed maturity investments were $228 million in 2013, $337 million in 2012 and $402 million in 2011, and substantially all of
the losses related to our investments in Texas Competitive Electric Holdings ( TCEH ) bonds. In 2011, we also recognized aggregate OTTI losses of $506 million related to our investments in equity securities, a portion of which related to
certain components of our Wells Fargo common stock investments. The OTTI losses on equity securities in 2011 averaged about 7.5% of the original cost of the impaired securities. In each case, the issuer had been profitable in recent periods and in
some cases highly profitable.      Although we have periodically recorded OTTI losses in earnings in each of the past three years,
we continue to own certain of these securities. In cases where the market values of these investments have increased since the dates the OTTI losses were recorded in earnings, these increases are not reflected in earnings but are instead included in
shareholders  equity as a   
         48   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses    (Continued)        

component of accumulated other comprehensive income. When recorded, OTTI losses have no impact whatsoever on the asset values otherwise recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets or on our
consolidated shareholders  equity. In addition, the recognition of such losses in earnings rather than in accumulated other comprehensive income does not necessarily indicate that sales are imminent or planned and sales ultimately may not occur
for a number of years. Furthermore, the recognition of OTTI losses does not necessarily indicate that the loss in value of the security is permanent or that the market price of the security will not subsequently increase to and ultimately exceed our
original cost.      As of December 31, 2013, consolidated gross unrealized losses on our investments in equity and fixed
maturity securities determined on an individual purchase lot basis were $289 million. We have concluded that as of December 31, 2013, such losses were not other than temporary. We consider several factors in determining whether or not
impairments are deemed to be other than temporary, including the current and expected long-term business prospects and if applicable, the creditworthiness of the issuer, our ability and intent to hold the investment until the price recovers and the
length of time and relative magnitude of the price decline.      Derivative gains/losses primarily represent the changes in fair
value of our credit default and equity index put option contracts. Periodic changes in the fair values of these contracts are reflected in earnings and can be significant, reflecting the volatility of underlying credit and equity markets.
     In 2013, our equity index put option contracts generated a pre-tax gain of $2.8 billion, which was due to changes in fair
values of the contracts as a result of overall higher equity index values, favorable currency movements and modestly higher interest rate assumptions. Our ultimate payment obligations, if any, under our remaining equity index put option contracts
will be determined as of the contract expiration dates, which begin in 2018, and will be based on the intrinsic value as defined under the contracts as of those dates. As of December 31, 2013, the intrinsic value of these contracts was
approximately $1.7 billion and our recorded liability at fair value was approximately $4.7 billion.      In 2012, we recorded
pre-tax gains from our equity index put option contracts of approximately $1.0 billion. These gains were due to increased index values, foreign currency exchange rate changes and valuation adjustments on a small number of contracts where contractual
settlements are determined differently than the standard determination of intrinsic value, partially offset by lower interest rate assumptions. In 2011, we recorded pre-tax losses of approximately $1.8 billion on our equity index put option
contracts. The losses reflected declines ranging from about 5.5% to 17% with respect to three of the four equity indexes covered under our contracts and lower interest rate assumptions.   
  Our credit default contracts generated pre-tax losses of $213 million in 2013, which was due to increases in estimated liabilities of a
municipality issuer contract that relates to more than 500 municipal debt issues. Our credit default contract exposures associated with corporate issuers expired in December 2013. There were no losses paid in 2013. Our remaining credit default
derivative contract exposures are currently limited to the municipality issuer contract.      In 2012, we recognized pre-tax gains
of $894 million on credit default contracts. Such gains were attributable to narrower spreads and reduced time exposure, as well as from settlements related to the termination of certain contracts. We recorded pre-tax losses of $251 million on our
credit default contracts in 2011. The losses in 2011 were primarily related to our contracts involving non-investment grade corporate issuers due to widening credit default spreads and loss events. In 2012 and 2011, credit loss payments were $68
million and $86 million, respectively.       Financial Condition       Our balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital base. Our consolidated shareholders  equity at December 31, 2013 was $221.9 billion, an increase of $34.24
billion since the beginning of the year. Our consolidated shareholders  equity at December 31, 2013 is net of a reduction of approximately $1.8 billion as a result of acquisitions of noncontrolling interests as discussed below and in Note
22 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.      Consolidated cash and investments of our insurance and other
businesses approximated $199.2 billion (excludes our investments in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation) at December 31, 2013, including cash and cash equivalents of $42.6 billion. As of December 31, 2013, our insurance subsidiaries held
approximately $186.8 billion in cash and investments.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
   Financial Condition   (Continued)          
     
   In 2013, we used cash of approximately $15 billion in the aggregate to fund
Berkshire s investments in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz Holding ) and to acquire certain noncontrolling interests in our subsidiaries. On June 7, 2013, we invested $12.25 billion in Heinz Holding which acquired H.J.
Heinz Company. Our investments in Heinz Holding consist of common stock, common stock warrants and preferred stock. Berkshire currently holds 50% of the voting interests in Heinz Holding. During 2013, Berkshire acquired noncontrolling interests of
Marmon and International Metalworking Companies B.V., the parent company of Iscar. Cash paid in 2013 in connection with these acquisitions was approximately $2.9 billion and an additional $1.2 billion is payable in March 2014.   
  On October 1, 2013, we received cash of approximately $5.1 billion in connection with Mars/Wrigley s repurchase of our
investment in Wrigley subordinated notes. In January 2013, Berkshire issued $2.6 billion of parent company senior unsecured notes with maturities ranging from 2016 to 2043. The proceeds were used to fund the repayment of $2.6 billion of notes that
matured in February 2013. On January 1, 2014, Marmon completed its acquisition of the beverage dispensing and merchandising operations of British engineering company IMI plc for approximately $1.1 billion. The acquisition was funded with
existing cash balances.      Berkshire s Board of Directors has authorized Berkshire to repurchase its Class A and Class
B common shares at prices no higher than a 20% premium over the book value of the shares. Berkshire may repurchase shares at management s discretion. The repurchase program is expected to continue indefinitely, but does not obligate Berkshire
to repurchase any dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B common shares. Repurchases will not be made if they would reduce Berkshire s consolidated cash and cash equivalent holdings below $20 billion. Financial strength and redundant
liquidity will always be of paramount importance at Berkshire. There were no share repurchases during 2013. In December 2012, Berkshire acquired 9,475 Class A shares and 606,499 Class B shares for approximately $1.3 billion.   
  On December 19, 2013, MidAmerican completed its acquisition of NV Energy, Inc. ( NV Energy ), an energy holding company
serving electric and natural gas customers in Nevada. MidAmerican purchased all outstanding shares of NV Energy s common stock for cash of approximately $5.6 billion. The acquisition was funded through a combination of cash provided by
MidAmerican s shareholders of $3.6 billion (including approximately $3.5 billion provided by Berkshire) and the issuance by MidAmerican of $2.0 billion of senior unsecured debt.   
  Our railroad, utilities and energy businesses (conducted by BNSF and MidAmerican) maintain very large investments in capital assets
(property, plant and equipment) and will regularly make capital expenditures in the normal course of business. In 2013, aggregate capital expenditures of these businesses were $8.2 billion, including $4.3 billion by MidAmerican and $3.9 billion by
BNSF. BNSF and MidAmerican have forecasted aggregate capital expenditures in 2014 of approximately $11.1 billion. Future capital expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flows from operations and debt issuances. In 2013, BNSF issued $3.0
billion in new debentures consisting of $1.5 billion of debentures due in 2023 and $1.5 billion of debentures due in 2043. BNSF s outstanding debt was approximately $17.0 billion as of December 31, 2013. In 2013, MidAmerican and its
subsidiaries issued new term debt of approximately $4.5 billion, including the new senior unsecured debt issued in funding the NV Energy acquisition, and repaid borrowings of approximately $2.0 billion. MidAmerican s aggregate outstanding
borrowings as of December 31, 2013 were approximately $29.6 billion which includes approximately $5.3 billion of NV Energy s debt. BNSF and MidAmerican have aggregate debt and capital lease maturities in 2014 of $2.1 billion.
Berkshire s commitment to provide up to $2 billion of additional capital to MidAmerican to permit the repayment of its debt obligations or to fund its regulated utility subsidiaries expired on February 28, 2014 and has not been
renewed. Berkshire does not guarantee the repayment of debt issued by BNSF, MidAmerican or any of their subsidiaries.      Assets
of the finance and financial products businesses, which consisted primarily of loans and finance receivables, cash and cash equivalents and fixed maturity and equity investments, were approximately $26.2 billion and $25.4 billion as of
December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Liabilities were $19.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $22.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2013, notes payable and other borrowings of finance
and financial products businesses were $12.7 billion and included approximately $11.2 billion of notes issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation ( BHFC ). During 2013, BHFC issued $3.45 billion aggregate of new senior notes and
repaid $3.45 billion of maturing senior notes. In January 2014, an additional $750 million of BHFC debt matured and was refinanced with a corresponding amount of new debt. We currently intend to issue additional new debt through BHFC to replace some
or all of its upcoming debt maturities. The proceeds from the BHFC notes are used to finance originated loans and acquired loans of Clayton Homes. The full and timely payment of principal and interest on the BHFC notes is guaranteed by Berkshire.
  
         50   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
   Financial Condition   (Continued)            
   As described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are party to equity
index put option and credit default contracts. With limited exception, these contracts contain no collateral posting requirements under any circumstances, including changes in either the fair value or intrinsic value of the contracts or a downgrade
in Berkshire s credit ratings. At December 31, 2013, the net liabilities recorded for such contracts were approximately $5.3 billion and we had no collateral posting requirements.   
  We regularly access the credit markets, particularly through our railroad, utilities and energy and finance and financial products
businesses. Restricted access to credit markets at affordable rates in the future could have a significant negative impact on our operations.      In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the  Reform Act ) was signed into law. The Reform Act reshapes financial regulations in the United States by creating new
regulators, regulating new markets and market participants and providing new enforcement powers to regulators. Virtually all major areas of the Reform Act have been subject to extensive rulemaking proceedings being conducted both jointly and
independently by multiple regulatory agencies, some of which have been completed and others that are expected to be finalized during the next several months. Although the Reform Act may adversely affect some of our business activities, it is not
currently expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial results or financial condition.       Contractual Obligations
      We are party to contracts associated with ongoing business and financing activities, which will result in cash payments to
counterparties in future periods. Certain obligations reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as notes payable, require future payments on contractually specified dates and in fixed and determinable amounts. Other obligations pertain to
the acquisition of goods or services in the future, such as minimum rentals under operating leases, that are not currently reflected in the financial statements. Such obligations will be reflected in future periods as the goods are delivered or
services provided. Amounts due as of the balance sheet date for purchases where the goods and services have been received and a liability incurred are not included in the following table to the extent that such amounts are due within one year of the
balance sheet date.      The timing and/or amount of the payments under certain contracts are contingent upon the outcome of
future events. Actual payments will likely vary, perhaps significantly, from estimates reflected in the table that follows. Most significantly, the timing and amount of payments arising under property and casualty insurance contracts are contingent
upon the outcome of claim settlement activities or events that may occur over many years. In addition, obligations arising under life, annuity and health insurance benefits are estimated based on assumptions as to future premiums, allowances,
mortality, morbidity, expenses and policy lapse rates, as applicable. The amounts presented in the following table are based on the liability estimates reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013. Although certain
insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses and life, annuity and health benefits are ceded to others under reinsurance contracts, receivables recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are not reflected in the table below. A summary of
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013 follows. Amounts are in millions.       

(1)  
    
     Includes interest.           

(3)  
    
     Amounts represent estimated undiscounted benefit obligations net of estimated future premiums, as applicable.       

(4)  
    
     Includes derivative contract liabilities.       
         51   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
     
    Critical Accounting Policies    
  Certain accounting policies require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Such estimates are necessarily based on assumptions about numerous factors involving varying, and possibly significant, degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, certain amounts currently recorded in the financial statements,
with the benefit of hindsight, will likely be adjusted in the future based on additional information made available and changes in other facts and circumstances.        Property and casualty losses        A summary of our consolidated
liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses is presented in the table below. Except for certain workers  compensation liabilities, all liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses (referred to in this section as  gross
unpaid losses ) are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets without discounting for time value, regardless of the length of the claim-tail. Amounts are in millions.   

*   
   Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges on reinsurance assumed and before foreign currency translation effects.      
  We record liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts
based upon estimates of the ultimate amounts payable under the contracts with respect to losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date. The timing and amount of loss payments is subject to a great degree of variability and is contingent upon,
among other things, the timing of claim reporting from insureds and cedants and the determination of the ultimate loss amount through the loss adjustment process. A variety of techniques are used in establishing the liabilities for unpaid losses.
Regardless of the techniques used, significant judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the ultimate amounts payable in the future. As a result, uncertainties are imbedded in and permeate the actuarial loss reserving techniques and
processes used.      As of any balance sheet date, not all claims that have occurred have been reported and not all reported
claims have been settled. Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves include provisions for reported claims (referred to as  case reserves ) and for claims that have not been reported (referred to as incurred but not yet reported
( IBNR ) reserves). The time period between the loss occurrence date and settlement payment date is referred to as the  claim-tail.  Property claims usually have fairly short claim-tails and, absent litigation, are reported and
settled within a few years of occurrence. Casualty losses usually have very long claim-tails, occasionally extending for decades. Casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by changing contract
interpretations. The legal environment and judicial process further contributes to extending claim-tails.      Receivables are
recorded with respect to losses ceded to other reinsurers and are estimated in a manner similar to liabilities for insurance losses. In addition, reinsurance receivables may ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to perform
under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.      We utilize processes and techniques to establish liability estimates that are believed to best fit the particular business. Additional information regarding those processes and techniques of our
significant insurance businesses (GEICO, General Re and BHRG) follows.       GEICO    
  GEICO s gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense liabilities as of December 31, 2013 were $11.3 billion, which
included $8.0 billion of reported average, case and case development reserves and $3.3 billion of IBNR reserves. GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance. Auto insurance claims generally have a relatively short
claim-tail. The   
         52   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              

    GEICO (Continued)          
   
key assumptions affecting our reserve estimates include projections of ultimate claim counts ( frequency ) and average loss per claim ( severity ).   
  Our reserving methodologies produce reserve estimates based upon the individual claims (or a  ground-up  approach), which
yields an aggregate estimate of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses. Ranges of loss estimates are not determined in the aggregate.      Our actuaries establish and evaluate unpaid loss reserves using recognized standard actuarial loss development methods and techniques. The significant reserve components (and percentage of gross reserves
as of December 31, 2013) are: (1) average reserves (15%), (2) case and case development reserves (60%) and (3) IBNR reserves (25%). Each component of loss reserves is affected by the expected frequency and average severity
of claims. Reserves are analyzed using statistical techniques on historical claims data and adjusted when appropriate to reflect perceived changes in loss patterns. Data is analyzed by policy coverage, rated state, reporting date and occurrence
date, among other ways. A brief discussion of each reserve component follows.      We establish average reserve amounts for
reported auto damage claims and new liability claims prior to the development of an individual case reserve. The average reserves are intended to represent a reasonable estimate for incurred claims for claims when adjusters have insufficient time
and information to make specific claim estimates and for a large number of minor physical damage claims that are paid within a relatively short time after being reported. Average reserve amounts are driven by the estimated average severity per claim
and the number of new claims opened.      Our claims adjusters generally establish individual liability claim case loss and loss
adjustment expense reserve estimates as soon as the specific facts and merits of each claim can be evaluated. Case reserves represent the amounts that in the judgment of the adjusters are reasonably expected to be paid in the future to completely
settle the claim, including expenses. Individual case reserves are revised over time as more information becomes known.      For
most liability coverages, case reserves alone are an insufficient measure of the ultimate cost due in part to the longer claim-tail, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the incompleteness of facts available at the time the case reserve
is established. Therefore, we establish additional case development reserve estimates, which are usually percentages of the case reserve. As of December 31, 2013, case development reserves averaged approximately 25% of total established case
reserves. In general, case development factors are selected by a retrospective analysis of the overall adequacy of historical case reserves. Case development factors are reviewed and revised periodically.   
  For unreported claims, IBNR reserve estimates are calculated by first projecting the ultimate number of claims expected (reported and
unreported) for each significant coverage by using historical quarterly and monthly claim counts to develop age-to-age projections of the ultimate counts by accident quarter. Reported claims are subtracted from the ultimate claim projections to
produce an estimate of the number of unreported claims. The number of unreported claims is multiplied by an estimate of the average cost per unreported claim to produce the IBNR reserve amount. Actuarial techniques are difficult to apply reliably in
certain situations, such as to new legal precedents, class action suits or recent catastrophes. Consequently, supplemental IBNR reserves for these types of events may be established through the collaborative effort of actuarial, claims and other
management personnel.      For each significant coverage, we test the adequacy of the total loss reserves using one or more
actuarial projections based on claim closure models, paid loss triangles and incurred loss triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims occurring in a given period and projects the ultimate cost.   
  Unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense estimates recorded at the end of 2012 developed downward by $238 million when reevaluated
through December 31, 2013, producing a corresponding increase to pre-tax earnings in 2013. These downward reserve developments represented approximately 1.3% of earned premiums in 2013 and approximately 2.3% of prior year-end recorded
liabilities. Reserving assumptions at December 31, 2013 were modified appropriately to reflect the most recent frequency and severity results. Future reserve development will depend on whether actual frequency and severity are more or less than
anticipated.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              

    GEICO (Continued)          
   Within the automobile line of business, reserves for liability coverages are more
uncertain due to the longer claim-tails. Approximately 92% of GEICO s reserves as of December 31, 2013 were for automobile liability, of which bodily injury ( BI ) coverage accounted for approximately 55%. We believe it is
reasonably possible that the average BI severity will change by at least one percentage point from the severity used. If actual BI severity changes one percentage point from what was used in establishing the reserves, our reserves would develop up
or down by approximately $165 million resulting in a corresponding decrease or increase in pre-tax earnings. Many of the same economic forces that would likely cause BI severity to be different from expected would likely also cause severities
for other injury coverages to differ in the same direction.      GEICO s exposure to highly uncertain losses is believed to
be limited to certain commercial excess umbrella policies written during a period from 1981 to 1984. Remaining liabilities associated with such exposure are currently a relatively insignificant component of GEICO s total reserves (approximately
1.3%) and there is minimal apparent asbestos or environmental liability exposure. Related claim activity over the past year was insignificant.       General Re and BHRG       Liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses
and loss adjustment expenses of our General Re and BHRG underwriting units derive primarily from assumed reinsurance. Additional uncertainties are unique to the processes used in estimating such reinsurance liabilities. The nature, extent, timing
and perceived reliability of information received from ceding companies varies widely depending on the type of coverage, the contractual reporting terms (which are affected by market conditions and practices) and other factors. Contract terms,
conditions and coverages tend to lack standardization and may evolve more rapidly than under primary insurance policies. We are unable to reliably measure the ongoing economic impact of such uncertainties.   
  The nature and extent of loss information provided under many facultative, per occurrence excess or retroactive contracts may not differ
significantly from the information received under a primary insurance contract. This occurs when our personnel either work closely with the ceding company in settling individual claims or manage the claims themselves. However, loss information
related to aggregate excess-of-loss contracts, including catastrophe losses and quota-share treaties, is often less detailed. Occasionally, loss information is reported in a summary format rather than on an individual claim basis. Loss data is
usually provided through periodic reports and may include the amount of ceded losses paid where reimbursement is sought as well as case loss reserve estimates. Ceding companies infrequently provide IBNR estimates to reinsurers.   
  Each of our reinsurance businesses has established practices to identify and gather needed information from clients. These practices
include, for example, comparison of expected premiums to reported premiums to help identify delinquent client reports and claim reviews to facilitate loss reporting and identify inaccurate or incomplete claim reporting. We periodically evaluate and
modify these practices as conditions, risk factors and unanticipated areas of exposures are identified.      The timing of claim
reporting to reinsurers is typically delayed in comparison with claim reporting to primary insurers. In some instances, multiple reinsurers assume and cede parts of an underlying risk thereby causing multiple contractual intermediaries between us
and the primary insured. In these instances, the claim reporting delays are compounded. The relative impact of reporting delays on the reinsurer varies depending on the type of coverage, contractual reporting terms and other factors. Contracts
covering casualty losses on a per occurrence excess basis may experience longer delays in reporting due to the length of the claim-tail as regards to the underlying claim. In addition, ceding companies may not report claims until they conclude it is
reasonably possible that the reinsurer will be affected, usually determined as a function of its estimate of the claim amount as a percentage of the reinsurance contract retention. However, the timing of reporting large per occurrence excess
property losses or property catastrophe losses may not vary significantly from primary insurance.      Under contracts where
periodic premium and claims reports are required from ceding companies, such reports are generally required at quarterly intervals which in the U.S. range from 30 to 90 days after the end of the accounting period. Outside the U.S., reinsurance
reporting practices vary. In certain countries, clients report annually, often 90 to 180 days after the end of the annual period. The different client reporting practices generally do not result in a significant increase in risk or uncertainty as
the actuarial reserving methodologies are adjusted to compensate for the delays.      Premium and loss data is provided to us
through at least one intermediary (the primary insurer), so there is a risk that the loss data provided is incomplete, inaccurate or the claim is outside the coverage terms. Information provided by ceding
  
         54   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              

    General Re and BHRG (Continued)    

companies is reviewed for completeness and compliance with the contract terms. Generally, we are permitted under the contracts to access the cedant s books and records with respect to the
subject business, thus providing us the ability to conduct audits to determine the accuracy and completeness of information. Audits are conducted as we deem appropriate.      In the normal course of business, disputes with clients occasionally arise concerning whether certain claims are covered under our reinsurance policies. We resolve most coverage disputes through the
involvement of our claims department personnel and the appropriate client personnel or through independent outside counsel. If disputes cannot be resolved, our contracts generally specify whether arbitration, litigation, or an alternative dispute
resolution process will be invoked. There are no coverage disputes at this time for which an adverse resolution would likely have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.   
   General Re       General Re s gross and net unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and gross reserves by major line of business as of December 31, 2013 are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.

(2)  
    
     Includes directors and officers, errors and omissions, medical malpractice and umbrella coverage.       
  General Re s loss reserve estimation process is based upon a ground-up approach, beginning with case estimates and supplemented by
additional case reserves ( ACRs ) and IBNR reserves. The critical processes in establishing loss reserves involve the establishment of ACRs by claim examiners, the determination of expected ultimate loss ratios which drive IBNR reserve
amounts and the comparison of case reserve reporting trends to the expected loss reporting patterns. Recorded reserve amounts are subject to  tail risk  where reported losses develop beyond the maximum expected loss emergence time period.
     We do not routinely determine loss reserve ranges. We believe that the techniques necessary to make such determinations have
not sufficiently developed and that the myriad of assumptions required render such resulting ranges to be unreliable. In addition, claim counts or average amounts per claim are not utilized because clients do not consistently provide reliable data
in sufficient detail.      Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, our claim examiners make independent
evaluations of loss amounts. In some cases, examiners  estimates differ from amounts reported by ceding companies. If the examiners  estimates are significantly greater than the ceding company s estimates, the claims are further
investigated. If deemed appropriate, ACRs are established above the amount reported by the ceding company. As of December 31, 2013, ACRs aggregated approximately $2.2 billion before discounts and were concentrated in workers 
compensation reserves, and to a lesser extent in professional liability reserves. Our examiners also periodically conduct detailed claim reviews of individual clients and case reserves are often increased as a result. In 2013, we conducted 266 claim
reviews.      Our actuaries classify all loss and premium data into segments ( reserve cells ) primarily based on
product (e.g., treaty, facultative and program) and line of business (e.g., auto liability, property, etc.). For each reserve cell, premiums and losses are aggregated by accident year, policy year or underwriting year (depending on client reporting
practices) and analyzed over time. We internally refer to these loss aggregations as loss triangles, which serve as the primary basis for our IBNR reserve calculations. We review over 300 reserve cells for our North American business and
approximately 900 reserve cells with respect to our international business.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              
    General Re (Continued)             We use loss triangles to determine the expected case loss emergence patterns for most coverages and, in
conjunction with expected loss ratios by accident year, loss triangles are further used to determine IBNR reserves. While additional calculations form the basis for estimating the expected loss emergence pattern, the determination of the expected
loss emergence pattern is not strictly a mechanical process. In instances where the historical loss data is insufficient, we use estimation formulas along with reliance on other loss triangles and judgment. Factors affecting our loss development
triangles include but are not limited to the following: changes in client claims practices, changes in claim examiners  use of ACRs or the frequency of client company claim reviews, changes in policy terms and coverage (such as client loss
retention levels and occurrence and aggregate policy limits), changes in loss trends and changes in legal trends that result in unanticipated losses, as well as other sources of statistical variability. Collectively, these factors influence the
selection of the expected loss emergence patterns.      We select expected loss ratios by reserve cell, by accident year, based
upon reviewing forecasted losses and indicated ultimate loss ratios that are predicted from aggregated pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate loss ratios are calculated using the selected loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned premium.
If the selected emergence pattern is not accurate, then the indicated ultimate loss ratios may not be accurate, which can affect the selected loss ratios and hence the IBNR reserve. As with selected loss emergence patterns, selecting expected loss
ratios is not a strictly mechanical process and judgment is used in the analysis of indicated ultimate loss ratios and department pricing loss ratios.      We estimate IBNR reserves by reserve cell, by accident year, using the expected loss emergence patterns and the expected loss ratios. The expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios are the
critical IBNR reserving assumptions and are updated annually. Once the annual IBNR reserves are determined, our actuaries calculate expected case loss emergence for the upcoming calendar year. These calculations do not involve new assumptions and
use the prior year-end expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios. The expected losses are then allocated into interim estimates that are compared to actual reported losses in the subsequent year. This comparison provides a test of
the adequacy of prior year-end IBNR reserves and forms the basis for possibly changing IBNR reserve assumptions during the course of the year.      In 2013, our reported claims for prior years  workers  compensation losses were less than expected by $238 million. However, further analysis of the workers  compensation reserve cells
by segment indicated the need for maintaining IBNR reserves. These developments precipitated a net increase of $112 million in nominal IBNR reserve estimates for unreported occurrences. After adjusting for the $126 million net increase in
liabilities from changes in net reserve discounts during the year, the net increase in workers  compensation losses from prior years  occurrences had a minimal impact on pre-tax earnings in 2013. To illustrate the sensitivity of changes in
expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios for our significant excess-of-loss workers  compensation reserve cells, an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern and an increase of ten percent in the
expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in our nominal IBNR reserves as of December 31, 2013 of approximately $795 million and $441 million on a discounted basis. The increase in discounted reserves would produce a
corresponding decrease in pre-tax earnings. We believe it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates.   
  Our other casualty and general liability reported losses (excluding mass tort losses) developed favorably in 2013 relative to
expectations. Casualty losses tend to be long-tail and it should not be assumed that favorable loss experience in a given year means that loss reserve amounts currently established will continue to develop favorably. For our significant other
casualty and general liability reserve cells (including medical malpractice, umbrella, auto and general liability), an increase of five points in the tails of the expected emergence patterns and an increase of five percent in expected loss ratios
(one percent for large international proportional reserve cells) would produce a net increase in our nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $978 million. We believe it is reasonably possible for
the tails of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates in any of the individual aforementioned reserve cells. However, given the diversification in worldwide business, more likely outcomes are believed
to be less than $978 million.      In 2013, our property results included estimated losses incurred of $400 million from
significant catastrophe events during the year. In 2013, reported claims for prior years  property loss events were less than expected, and we reduced our estimated ultimate liabilities by $375 million. However, the nature of property loss
experience tends to be more volatile because of the effect of catastrophes and large individual property losses.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              

    General Re (Continued)          
   In certain reserve cells within excess directors and officers and errors and omissions
( D O and E O ) coverages, IBNR reserves are based on estimated ultimate losses without consideration of expected emergence patterns. These cells often involve a spike in loss activity arising from recent industry developments
making it difficult to select an expected loss emergence pattern. For our large D O and E O reserve cells, an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern (for those cells where emergence patterns are considered) and
an increase of ten percent in the expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $153 million. We believe it is reasonably possible for the tail of
the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates.      Overall industry-wide loss
experience data and informed judgment are used when internal loss data is of limited reliability, such as in setting the estimates for mass tort, asbestos and hazardous waste (collectively,  mass tort ) claims. Gross unpaid mass tort
liabilities at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were approximately $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively and net of reinsurance, were approximately $1.2 billion at the end of each of the last two years. Mass tort net claims paid were
$72 million in 2013. In 2013, ultimate loss estimates for asbestos and environmental claims were increased by $30 million. In addition to the previously described methodologies, we consider  survival ratios  based on average net
claim payments in recent years versus net unpaid losses as a rough guide to reserve adequacy. The survival ratio based on claim payments made over the last three years was approximately 15.6 years as of December 31, 2013. The reinsurance
industry s survival ratio for asbestos and pollution reserves was approximately 14.5 years based on the three years ending December 31, 2012. Estimating mass tort losses is very difficult due to the changing legal environment. Although
such reserves are believed to be adequate, significant reserve increases may be required in the future if new exposures or claimants are identified, new claims are reported or new theories of liability emerge.   
   BHRG    
  BHRG s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2013 are summarized as follows. Amounts are
in millions.       
    In general, the methodologies we use to establish loss reserves vary widely and encompass many of the
common methodologies employed in the actuarial field today. Certain traditional methodologies such as paid and incurred loss development techniques, incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques and frequency and severity techniques are
utilized, as well as ground-up techniques where appropriate. Additional judgments must also be employed to consider changes in contract conditions and terms as well as the incidence of litigation or legal and regulatory change.   
  Our gross loss reserves related to retroactive reinsurance policies were predominately for casualty or liability losses. Our retroactive
policies relate to loss events occurring before a specified date on or before the contract date and include excess-of-loss contracts, in which losses above a contractual retention are indemnified or contracts that indemnify all losses paid by the
counterparty after the policy effective date. We paid retroactive reinsurance losses and loss adjustment expenses of approximately $1.3 billion in 2013. The classification  reported case reserves  has no practical analytical value
with respect to retroactive policies since the amount is often derived from reports in bulk from ceding companies, who may have inconsistent definitions of  case reserves.  We review and establish loss reserve estimates, including
estimates of IBNR reserves, in the aggregate by contract. In 2013, we increased reserves for prior years  retroactive reinsurance contracts by approximately $300 million, which related primarily to asbestos and environmental risks assumed.
  
         57   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Property and casualty losses    (Continued)              

    BHRG (Continued)          
   In establishing retroactive reinsurance reserves, we often analyze historical aggregate
loss payment patterns and project losses into the future under various scenarios. The claim-tail is expected to be very long for many policies and may last several decades. We assign judgmental probability factors to these aggregate loss payment
scenarios and an expectancy outcome is determined. We monitor claim payment activity and review ceding company reports and other information concerning the underlying losses. Since the claim-tail is expected to be very long for such contracts, we
reassess expected ultimate losses as significant events related to the underlying losses are reported or revealed during the monitoring and review process.      BHRG s liabilities for environmental, asbestos and latent injury losses and loss adjustment expenses were approximately $11.9 billion at December 31, 2013 and $12.4 billion at
December 31, 2012 and were concentrated within retroactive reinsurance contracts. We paid losses of approximately $874 million in 2013 attributable to these exposures. BHRG, as a reinsurer, does not receive consistently reliable
information regarding asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims from all ceding companies, particularly with respect to multi-line treaty or aggregate excess-of-loss policies. Periodically, we conduct a ground-up analysis of the underlying
loss data of the reinsured to make an estimate of ultimate reinsured losses. When detailed loss information is unavailable, our estimates can only be developed by applying recent industry trends and projections to aggregate client data. Judgments in
these areas necessarily include the stability of the legal and regulatory environment under which these claims will be adjudicated. Potential legal reform and legislation could also have a significant impact on establishing loss reserves for mass
tort claims in the future.      We currently believe that maximum losses payable under our retroactive policies will not exceed
approximately $35 billion due to the aggregate contract limits that are applicable to most of these contracts. Absent significant judicial or legislative changes affecting asbestos, environmental or latent injury exposures, we also believe it
unlikely that our reported year end gross unpaid losses of $17.7 billion will develop upward to the maximum loss payable or downward by more than 15%.      Certain of our reinsurance contracts are expected to have a low frequency of claim occurrence combined with a potential for high severity of claims, such as property losses from catastrophes and aviation
risks related to our catastrophe and individual risk business. Loss reserves related to catastrophe and individual risk contracts were approximately $800 million at December 31, 2013. Estimated ultimate liabilities for prior years 
events were reduced by about $200 million in 2013, which produced a corresponding increase in pre-tax earnings. Reserving techniques for catastrophe and individual risk contracts generally rely more on a per-policy assessment of the ultimate cost
associated with the individual loss event rather than with an analysis of the historical development patterns of past losses. Absent litigation affecting the interpretation of coverage terms, the expected claim-tail is relatively short and thus the
estimation error in the initial reserve estimates usually emerges within 24 months after the loss event.      Other reinsurance
reserves (approximately $11.9 billion as of December 31, 2013) consisted of a variety of traditional property and casualty coverages written primarily under excess-of-loss and quota-share treaties. Liabilities as of December 31, 2013,
included approximately $4.0 billion related to the 20% quota-share contract with Swiss Re, which is now in run-off. Reinsurance reserve amounts are generally based upon loss estimates reported by ceding companies and IBNR reserves that are primarily
a function of reported losses from ceding companies and anticipated loss ratios established on a portfolio basis, supplemented by management s judgment of the impact of major catastrophe events as they become known. Anticipated loss ratios are
based upon management s judgment considering the type of business covered, analysis of each ceding company s loss history and evaluation of that portion of the underlying contracts underwritten by each ceding company, which are in turn
ceded to BHRG. A range of reserve amounts as a result of changes in underlying assumptions is not prepared.        Derivative
contract liabilities        Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include significant derivative contract liabilities that are
measured at fair value. Our most significant derivative contract exposures relate to equity index put option contracts written between 2004 and 2008. These contracts were entered into in over-the-counter markets. Certain elements of the terms and
conditions of these contracts are not standard and we are not required to post collateral under most of these contracts. Furthermore, there is no source of independent data available to us showing trading volume and actual prices of completed
transactions. As a result, the values of these liabilities are based on valuation models that we believe would be used by market participants. Such models or other valuation techniques use inputs that are observable in the marketplace, while others
are unobservable. Unobservable inputs require us to make certain projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market participants in establishing   
         58   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Derivative contract liabilities    (Continued)              
   
prices. We believe that the fair values produced for long-duration options is inherently subjective. The values of contracts in an actual exchange are affected by market conditions and
perceptions of the buyers and sellers. Actual values in an exchange may differ significantly from the values produced by any mathematical model.      We determine the estimated fair value of equity index put option contracts using a Black-Scholes based option valuation model. Inputs to the model include the current index value, strike price, interest
rate, dividend rate and contract expiration date. The weighted average interest and dividend rates used as of December 31, 2013 were 2.5% and 3.6%, respectively, and were approximately 2.1% and 3.3%, respectively, as of December 31, 2012.
The interest rates as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were approximately 64 basis points and 95 basis points (on a weighted average basis), respectively, over benchmark interest rates and represented our estimate of our nonperformance
risk. We believe that the most significant economic risks under these contracts relate to changes in the index value component and, to a lesser degree, the foreign currency component.   
  The Black-Scholes based model also incorporates volatility estimates that measure potential price changes over time. Our contracts have
an average remaining maturity of about 7 years. The weighted average volatility used as of December 31, 2013 was approximately 20.7%, compared to 20.9% as of December 31, 2012. The weighted average volatilities are based on the volatility
input for each equity index put option contract weighted by the notional value of each equity index put option contract as compared to the aggregate notional value of all equity index put option contracts. The volatility input for each equity index
put option contract reflects our expectation of future price volatility. The impact on fair value as of December 31, 2013 ($4.7 billion) from changes in the volatility assumption is summarized in the table that follows. Dollars are
in millions.       
    For several years, we also have had exposures relating to a number of credit default contracts written
involving corporate and state/municipality issuers. During 2013, all credit default contracts involving corporate issuers expired and at December 31, 2013, our remaining exposures relate to state/municipality exposures which begin to expire in
2019. The fair values of our state/municipality contracts are generally based on bond pricing data on the underlying bond issues and credit spread estimates. We monitor and review pricing data and spread estimates for consistency as well as
reasonableness with respect to current market conditions. We make no significant adjustments to the pricing data or inputs obtained.      Prices in a current market trade involving identical (or sufficiently similar) risks and contract terms as our equity index put option or credit default contracts could differ significantly from the fair
values used in the financial statements. We do not operate as a derivatives dealer and currently do not utilize offsetting strategies to hedge our equity index put option or credit default contracts. We currently intend to allow these contracts to
run off to their respective expiration dates.        Other Critical Accounting Policies     
  We record deferred charges with respect to liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the inception of these
contracts, the deferred charges represent the excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate liability for unpaid losses over the consideration received. Deferred charges are amortized using the interest method over an estimate of the ultimate claim
payment period with the periodic amortization reflected in earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses. Deferred charge balances are adjusted periodically to reflect new projections of the amount and timing of remaining loss
payments. Adjustments to deferred charge balances resulting from changes to these assumptions are determined retrospectively from the inception of the contract. Unamortized deferred charges were approximately $4.35 billion at December 31,
2013. Significant changes in the estimated amount and the timing of payments of unpaid losses may have a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Other Critical Accounting Policies    (Continued)              
   Our Consolidated Balance Sheet includes goodwill of acquired businesses of
$57.0 billion, which includes approximately $2.7 billion associated with our various acquisitions in 2013. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually and we conducted our most recent annual review during the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our review includes determining the estimated fair values of our reporting units. There are several methods of estimating a reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, underlying asset and liability fair value determinations and
other valuation techniques, such as discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. We primarily use discounted projected future earnings or cash flow methods. The key assumptions and inputs used in such methods
may include forecasting revenues and expenses, operating cash flows and capital expenditures, as well as an appropriate discount rate and other inputs. A significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and
in performing goodwill impairment tests. Due to the inherent uncertainty in forecasting cash flows and earnings, actual results may vary significantly from the forecasts. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the
estimated fair value, then, as required by GAAP, we estimate the fair values of the individual assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities of the reporting unit. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over
the estimated fair value of its net assets establishes the implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over the implied value is charged to earnings as an impairment loss.   
   Market Risk Disclosures    
  Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include a substantial amount of assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks. Our
significant market risks are primarily associated with interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The fair values of our investment portfolios and equity index put option contracts remain subject to
considerable volatility. The following sections address the significant market risks associated with our business activities.   
    Interest Rate Risk        We regularly invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive instruments. Our strategy is to acquire such securities that are attractively priced in relation to the perceived credit risk.
Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur with respect to assets. We also issue debt in the ordinary course of business to fund business operations, business acquisitions and for other general purposes. We strive to maintain high
credit ratings so that the cost of our debt is minimized. We rarely utilize derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risks.      The fair values of our fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market interest rates. In addition, changes in interest rate assumptions
used in our equity index put option contract models cause changes in reported liabilities with respect to those contracts. Increases and decreases in interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those
instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general
market conditions. The fair values of fixed interest rate instruments may be more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate instruments.      The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical changes in interest rates on our significant assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed that the
interest rate changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest rate risk, and that there are no significant changes to other factors used to determine the value of the instrument. The hypothetical changes in
interest rates do not reflect what could be deemed best or worst case scenarios. Variations in interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of repayments due to   
         60   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Interest Rate Risk    (Continued)        

prepayment options available to the issuer. For these reasons, actual results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.   

(1)  
    
     Includes other investments that are subject to a significant level of interest rate risk.       
    Equity Price Risk        Historically, we have maintained large amounts of invested assets in exchange traded equity securities. Strategically, we strive to invest in businesses that possess excellent economics, with able and
honest management and at sensible prices and prefer to invest a meaningful amount in each investee. Consequently, equity investments are concentrated in relatively few issuers. At December 31, 2013, approximately 55% of the total fair value of
equity investments was concentrated within four companies.      We often hold equity investments for long periods of time so we
are not troubled by short-term price volatility with respect to our investments provided that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of the investees remain favorable. We strive to maintain above average levels of
shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short-term price volatility.      Market prices for equity securities
are subject to fluctuation and consequently the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the
underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions.      We are also subject to equity price risk with respect to our equity index put option contracts. While our ultimate potential loss with respect to these contracts is determined from the movement of the
underlying stock index between the contract inception date and expiration date, fair values of these contracts are also affected by changes in other factors such as interest rates, expected dividend rates and the remaining duration of the contract.
These contracts expire between 2018 and 2026 and may not be unilaterally settled before their respective expiration dates.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Equity Price Risk    (Continued)        
     
   The following table summarizes our equity and other investments and derivative contract
liabilities with significant equity price risk as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. The effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those dates are also shown. The selected 30% hypothetical changes do not
reflect what could be considered the best or worst case scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in our equity investment portfolio. Dollar amounts are
in millions.       

(1)  
    
     Includes other investments that possess significant equity price risk.       
    Foreign Currency Risk        We generally do not use derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency price changes primarily because of the natural hedging that occurs between assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies
in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we hold investments in common stocks of major multinational companies such as The Coca-Cola Company that have significant foreign business and foreign currency risk of their own. Our net assets
subject to translation are primarily in our insurance, utilities and energy businesses, and to a lesser extent in our manufacturing and services businesses. The translation impact is somewhat offset by transaction gains or losses on net reinsurance
liabilities of certain U.S. subsidiaries that are denominated in foreign currencies as well as the equity index put option liabilities of U.S. subsidiaries relating to contracts that would be settled in foreign currencies.   
    Commodity Price Risk        Our subsidiaries use commodities in various ways in manufacturing and providing services. As such, we are subject to price risks related to various commodities. In most instances, we attempt to manage
these risks through the pricing of our products and services to customers. To the extent that we are unable to sustain price increases in response to commodity price increases, our operating results will likely be adversely affected. We utilize
derivative contracts to a limited degree in managing commodity price risks, most notably at MidAmerican. MidAmerican s exposures to commodities include variations in the price of fuel required to generate electricity, wholesale electricity that
is purchased and sold and natural gas supply for customers. Commodity prices are subject to wide price swings as supply and demand are impacted by, among many other unpredictable items, weather, market liquidity, generating facility availability,
customer usage, storage and transmission and transportation constraints. To mitigate a portion of the risk, MidAmerican uses derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, options, swaps and other agreements, to effectively secure future
supply or sell future production generally at fixed prices. The settled cost of these contracts is generally recovered from customers in regulated rates. Financial results would be negatively impacted
  
         62   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)      
    Commodity Price Risk    (Continued)        

if the costs of wholesale electricity, fuel or natural gas are higher than what is permitted to be recovered in rates. MidAmerican also uses futures, options and swap agreements to economically
hedge gas and electric commodity prices for physical delivery to non-regulated customers. The table that follows summarizes our commodity price risk on energy derivative contracts of MidAmerican as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and shows the
effects of a hypothetical 10% increase and a 10% decrease in forward market prices by the expected volumes for these contracts as of each date. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case
scenarios. Dollars are in millions.       
     FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    
  Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document as well as some statements in periodic press releases and some
oral statements of Berkshire officials during presentations about Berkshire or its subsidiaries are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Act ).
Forward-looking statements include statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, which include words such as  expects,   anticipates,   intends, 
 plans,   believes,   estimates  or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or
prospects and possible future Berkshire actions, which may be provided by management, are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are
subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about Berkshire and its subsidiaries, economic and market factors and the industries in which we do business, among other things. These statements are not guaranties of future performance and we have
no specific intention to update these statements.      Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or
forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that could cause our actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include, but
are not limited to, changes in market prices of our investments in fixed maturity and equity securities, losses realized from derivative contracts, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or act of
terrorism that causes losses insured by our insurance subsidiaries, changes in laws or regulations affecting our insurance, railroad, utilities and energy and finance subsidiaries, changes in federal income tax laws, and changes in general economic
and market factors that affect the prices of securities or the industries in which we do business.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         See  Market Risk Disclosures  contained in Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    
   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  (1992)  , our management concluded that
our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013.      The effectiveness of our internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears on page 65.   
  Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      February 28, 2014
  
         64   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2013. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework
(1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on the criteria
established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP      Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 28, 2014   
         65   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries    
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    
    (dollars in millions)        
 
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         66   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries    
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS    
    (dollars in millions except per-share amounts)    

*   
   Average shares outstanding include average Class A common shares and average Class B common shares determined on an equivalent Class A common stock basis.
Net earnings per common share attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500) of such amount or
$7.90 per share for 2013, $5.98 per share for 2012 and $4.14 per share for 2011.          See accompanying Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         67   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries    
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
    (dollars in millions)        
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY
       (dollars in millions)        
 
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         68   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries    
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    
    (dollars in millions)        
 
    See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         69   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries    
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        December 31, 2013            

(1)    Significant   
   accounting policies and practices      

(a)   
   Nature of operations and basis of consolidation         Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities, including insurance and reinsurance, freight rail
transportation, utilities and energy, finance, manufacturing, service and retailing. In these notes the terms  us,   we,  or  our  refer to Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries. Further information regarding our
reportable business segments is contained in Note 23. Significant business acquisitions completed over the past three years are discussed in Note 2.      The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Berkshire consolidated with the accounts of all subsidiaries and affiliates in which we hold a controlling financial interest as
of the financial statement date. Normally a controlling financial interest reflects ownership of a majority of the voting interests. We consolidate a variable interest entity ( VIE ) when we possess both the power to direct the activities
of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and we are either obligated to absorb the losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE or we hold the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be
significant to the VIE.      Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. In prior years, we presented certain
relatively large private placement investments as other investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Cash Flows and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2013, we included these investments as
components of investments in fixed maturity or equity securities. Prior year presentations were reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.       

(b)   
   Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements         The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) requires us to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. In particular, estimates of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and
related recoverables under reinsurance for property and casualty insurance are subject to considerable estimation error due to the inherent uncertainty in projecting ultimate claim amounts. In addition, estimates and assumptions associated with the
amortization of deferred charges reinsurance assumed, determinations of fair values of certain financial instruments and evaluations of goodwill for impairment require considerable judgment. Actual results may differ from the estimates used in
preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(c)   
   Cash and cash equivalents      
  Cash equivalents consist of funds invested in U.S. Treasury Bills, money market accounts, demand deposits and other investments with a
maturity of three months or less when purchased.       

(d)   
   Investments         We determine
the appropriate classification of investments in fixed maturity and equity securities at the acquisition date and re-evaluate the classification at each balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost, reflecting the
ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity. Trading investments are securities acquired with the intent to sell in the near term and are carried at fair value. All other securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at
fair value with net unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Substantially all of our investments in equity and fixed maturity securities are classified as available-for-sale.   
  We utilize the equity method to account for investments when we possess the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control,
over the operating and financial policies of the investee. The ability to exercise significant influence is presumed when an investor possesses more than 20% of the voting interests of the investee. This presumption may be overcome based on specific
facts and circumstances that demonstrate that the ability to exercise significant influence is restricted. We apply the equity method to investments in common stock and to other investments when such other investments possess substantially identical
subordinated interests to common stock.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(d)   
   Investments (Continued)          
   In applying the equity method, we record the investment at cost and subsequently
increase or decrease the carrying amount of the investment by our proportionate share of the net earnings or losses and other comprehensive income of the investee. We record dividends or other equity distributions as reductions in the carrying value
of the investment. In the event that net losses of the investee reduce the carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee are at-risk, even if we have not committed to provide financial support to
the investee. Such additional equity method losses, if any, are based upon the change in our claim on the investee s book value.      Investment gains and losses arise when investments are sold (as determined on a specific identification basis) or are other-than-temporarily impaired. If a decline in the value of an investment below cost
is deemed other than temporary, the cost of the investment is written down to fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. Factors considered in determining whether an impairment is other than temporary include: the financial condition,
business prospects and creditworthiness of the issuer, the relative amount of the decline, our ability and intent to hold the investment until the fair value recovers and the length of time that fair value has been less than cost. With respect to an
investment in a fixed maturity security, we recognize an other-than-temporary impairment if we (a) intend to sell or expect to be required to sell the security before its amortized cost is recovered or (b) do not expect to ultimately
recover the amortized cost basis even if we do not intend to sell the security. We recognize losses under (a) in earnings and under (b) we recognize the credit loss component in earnings and the difference between fair value and the
amortized cost basis net of the credit loss in other comprehensive income.       

(e)   
   Receivables, loans and finance receivables         Receivables of the insurance and other businesses are stated net of estimated allowances for uncollectible balances. Allowances for uncollectible balances are provided when it is probable counterparties
or customers will be unable to pay all amounts due based on the contractual terms. Receivables are generally written off against allowances after all reasonable collection efforts are exhausted.   
  Loans and finance receivables consist primarily of manufactured housing installment loans originated or purchased. Loans and finance
receivables are stated at amortized cost based on our ability and intent to hold such loans and receivables to maturity and are stated net of allowances for uncollectible accounts. Amortized cost represents acquisition cost, plus or minus
origination and commitment costs paid or fees received, which together with acquisition premiums or discounts, are deferred and amortized as yield adjustments over the life of the loan. Loans and finance receivables include loan securitizations
issued when we have the power to direct and the right to receive residual returns. Substantially all of these loans are secured by real or personal property or other assets of the borrower.   
  Allowances for credit losses from manufactured housing loans include estimates of losses on loans currently in foreclosure and losses on
loans not currently in foreclosure. Estimates of losses on loans in foreclosure are based on historical experience and collateral recovery rates. Estimates of losses on loans not currently in foreclosure consider historical default rates, collateral
recovery rates and existing economic conditions. Allowances for credit losses also incorporate the historical average time elapsed from the last payment until foreclosure.      Loans in which payments are delinquent (with no grace period) are considered past due. Loans which are over 90 days past due or in foreclosure are placed on nonaccrual status and interest previously
accrued but not collected is reversed. Subsequent amounts received on the loans are first applied to the principal and interest owed for the most delinquent amount. Interest income accruals are resumed once a loan is less than 90 days delinquent.
     Loans in the foreclosure process are considered non-performing. Once a loan is in foreclosure, interest income is not
recognized unless the foreclosure is cured or the loan is modified. Once a modification is complete, interest income is recognized based on the terms of the new loan. Loans that have gone through foreclosure are charged off when the collateral is
sold. Loans not in foreclosure are evaluated for charge off based on individual circumstances concerning the future collectability of the loan and the condition of the collateral securing the loan.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(f)   
   Derivatives         We carry
derivative contracts at fair value. Such balances reflect reductions permitted under master netting agreements with counterparties. The changes in fair value of derivative contracts that do not qualify as hedging instruments for financial reporting
purposes are recorded in earnings.      Cash collateral received from or paid to counterparties to secure derivative contract
assets or liabilities is included in other liabilities or other assets. Securities received from counterparties as collateral are not recorded as assets and securities delivered to counterparties as collateral continue to be reflected as assets in
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.       

(g)   
   Fair value measurements      
  As defined under GAAP, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market
participants in the principal market or in the most advantageous market when no principal market exists. Adjustments to transaction prices or quoted market prices may be required in illiquid or disorderly markets in order to estimate fair value.
Alternative valuation techniques may be appropriate under the circumstances to determine the value that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction. Market participants are assumed to be independent,
knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange and not acting under duress. Nonperformance or credit risk is considered in determining the fair value of liabilities. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to
develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, estimates of fair value presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or future market exchange.   

(h)   
   Inventories         Inventories
consist of manufactured goods and goods acquired for resale. Manufactured inventory costs include raw materials, direct and indirect labor and factory overhead. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. As of December 31, 2013,
approximately 42% of our consolidated inventory cost was determined using the last-in-first-out ( LIFO ) method, 32% using the first-in-first-out ( FIFO ) method, with the remainder using the specific identification method or
average cost methods. With respect to inventories carried at LIFO cost, the aggregate difference in value between LIFO cost and cost determined under the FIFO method was $796 million and $793 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012,
respectively.       

(i)   
   Property, plant and equipment         Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost and consist of major additions, improvements and betterments. With respect to constructed assets, all construction related material, direct
labor and contract services as well as certain indirect costs are capitalized. Indirect costs include interest over the construction period. With respect to constructed assets of certain of our regulated utility and energy subsidiaries that are
subject to authoritative guidance for regulated operations, capitalized costs also include an equity allowance for funds used during construction, which represents the equity funds necessary to finance the construction of the domestic regulated
facilities. Also see Note 1(p).      Normal repairs and maintenance and other costs that do not improve the property, extend
the useful life or otherwise do not meet capitalization criteria are charged to expense as incurred. Rail grinding costs related to our railroad properties are expensed as incurred.   
  Depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives or mandated recovery periods as prescribed by
regulatory authorities. Depreciation of assets of our regulated utilities and railroad is generally provided using group depreciation methods where rates are based on periodic depreciation studies approved by the applicable regulator. Under group
depreciation, a single depreciation rate is applied to the gross investment in a particular class of property, despite differences in the service life or salvage value of individual property units within the same class. When our regulated utilities
or railroad retires or sells a component of the assets accounted for using group depreciation methods, no gain or loss is recognized. Gains or losses on disposals of all other assets are recorded through earnings.   
  Our businesses evaluate property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
value of such assets may not be recoverable or the assets are being held for sale. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, we assess whether the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the use of
  
         72   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(i)   
   Property, plant and equipment (Continued)          
   
the asset plus residual value from the ultimate disposal exceeds the carrying value of the asset. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amounts, we write down the asset to the
estimated fair value. Impairment losses are included in earnings, except with respect to impairment of assets of our regulated utility and energy subsidiaries when the impacts of regulation are considered in evaluating the carrying value of
regulated assets.       

(j)   
   Goodwill and other intangible assets         Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business acquisitions. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. When
evaluating goodwill for impairment we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. There are several methods that may be used to estimate a reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other
valuation techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then the
identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit are estimated at fair value as of the current testing date. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the current estimated fair value of net assets establishes the
implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded goodwill over the implied goodwill value is charged to earnings as an impairment loss. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit and performing goodwill
impairment tests.      Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized based on the estimated pattern in which the economic
benefits are expected to be consumed or on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives. Intangible assets with definite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not
be recoverable. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired.   

(k)   
   Revenue recognition      
  Insurance premiums for prospective property/casualty and health insurance and reinsurance are earned over the loss exposure or coverage
period, in proportion to the level of protection provided. In most cases, premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over the term of the contract with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily pro-rata basis. Premiums for retroactive
property/casualty reinsurance policies are earned at the inception of the contracts, as all of the underlying loss events covered by these policies occurred in the past. Premiums for life reinsurance and annuity contracts are earned when due.
Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. For contracts containing experience rating provisions, premiums are based upon estimated loss experience under the contracts.   
  Sales revenues derive from the sales of manufactured products and goods acquired for resale. Revenues from sales are recognized upon
passage of title to the customer, which generally coincides with customer pickup, product delivery or acceptance, depending on terms of the sales arrangement.      Service revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Services provided pursuant to a contract are either recognized over the contract period or upon completion of the elements specified in the
contract depending on the terms of the contract. Revenues related to the sales of fractional ownership interests in aircraft are recognized ratably over the term of the related management services agreement as the transfer of ownership interest in
the aircraft is inseparable from the management services agreement.      Operating revenues of utilities and energy businesses
resulting from the distribution and sale of natural gas and electricity to customers is recognized when the service is rendered or the energy is delivered. Revenues include unbilled as well as billed amounts. Rates charged are generally subject to
federal and state regulation or established under contractual arrangements. When preliminary rates are permitted to be billed prior to final approval by the applicable regulator, certain revenue collected may be subject to refund and a liability for
estimated refunds is recorded.      Railroad transportation revenues are recognized based upon the proportion of service provided
as of the balance sheet date. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are recorded as a pro-rata reduction to revenue based on actual or projected future
customer shipments. When using projected shipments, we rely on historic trends as well as economic and other indicators to estimate the liability for customer incentives.   
         73   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(k)   
   Revenue recognition (Continued)          
   Interest income from investments in fixed maturity securities and loans is earned under
the interest method, which reflects accrual of interest due under terms of the agreements as well as amortization of acquisition premiums, accruable discounts and capitalized loan origination fees, as applicable. Dividends from equity securities are
recognized when earned, which is usually on the ex-dividend date.       

(l)   
   Losses and loss adjustment expenses         Liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses are established under property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts issued by our insurance subsidiaries for losses that have occurred as of the
balance sheet date. The liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses are recorded at the estimated ultimate payment amounts, except that amounts arising from certain workers  compensation reinsurance business are discounted. Estimated
ultimate payment amounts are based upon (1) reports of losses from policyholders, (2) individual case estimates and (3) estimates of incurred but not reported losses.   
  Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are charged to earnings after deducting amounts recovered and estimates of recoverable
amounts under ceded reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify policyholders with respect to the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.   
  The estimated liabilities of workers  compensation claims assumed under certain reinsurance contracts are discounted based upon an
annual discount rate of 4.5% for claims arising prior to January 1, 2003 and 1% for claims arising thereafter, consistent with discount rates used under insurance statutory accounting principles. The change in such reserve discounts, including
the periodic discount accretion is included in earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.       

(m)   
   Deferred charges reinsurance assumed         The excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate liabilities for claims and claim settlement costs over the premiums earned with respect to retroactive property/casualty reinsurance contracts are established
as deferred charges at inception of such contracts. Deferred charges are subsequently amortized using the interest method over the expected claim settlement periods. Changes to the estimated timing or amount of loss payments produce changes in
periodic amortization. Changes in such estimates are applied retrospectively and are included in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses in the period of the change. The unamortized balances are included in other assets and were
$4,359 million and $4,019 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.       

(n)   
   Insurance policy acquisition costs         With regards to insurance policies issued or renewed on or after January 1, 2012, incremental costs that are directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal of insurance contracts
are capitalized, subject to ultimate recoverability, and are subsequently amortized to underwriting expenses as the related premiums are earned. Direct incremental acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, and certain other costs
associated with successful efforts. All other underwriting costs are expensed as incurred. Prior to January 1, 2012, in addition to these direct incremental costs, capitalized costs also included certain advertising and other costs that are no
longer eligible to be capitalized. The recoverability of capitalized insurance policy acquisition costs generally reflects anticipation of investment income. The unamortized balances are included in other assets and were $1,601 million and $1,682
million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.       

(p)   
   Regulated utilities and energy businesses         Certain domestic energy subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in accordance with authoritative guidance for regulated operations, reflecting the economic effects of regulation from the ability
to recover certain costs from customers and the requirement to return revenues to customers in the future through the regulated rate-setting process. Accordingly, certain costs are deferred as regulatory assets and obligations are accrued as
regulatory liabilities. These assets and liabilities will be amortized into operating expenses and revenues over various future periods. At December 31, 2013, our Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $3,515 million in regulatory assets and
$2,665 million   
         74   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(p)   
   Regulated utilities and energy businesses (Continued)          
   
in regulatory liabilities. At December 31, 2012, our Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $2,909 million in regulatory assets and $1,813 million in regulatory liabilities.
Regulatory assets and liabilities are components of other assets and other liabilities of utilities and energy businesses.   
  Regulatory assets and liabilities are continually assessed for probable future inclusion in regulatory rates by considering factors such
as applicable regulatory or legislative changes and recent rate orders received by other regulated entities. If future inclusion in regulatory rates ceases to be probable, the amount no longer probable of inclusion in regulatory rates is charged or
credited to earnings (or other comprehensive income, if applicable) or returned to customers.       

(q)   
   Life, annuity and health insurance benefits         The liability for insurance benefits under life contracts has been computed based upon estimated future investment yields, expected mortality, morbidity, and lapse or withdrawal rates and reflects
estimates for future premiums and expenses under the contracts. These assumptions, as applicable, also include a margin for adverse deviation and may vary with the characteristics of the reinsurance contract s date of issuance, policy duration
and country of risk. The interest rate assumptions used may vary by reinsurance contract or jurisdiction and generally range from approximately 3% to 7%. Annuity contracts are discounted based on the implicit rate of return as of the inception of
the contracts and such interest rates range from approximately 1% to 7%.       

(r)   
   Foreign currency         The
accounts of our non-U.S. based subsidiaries are measured in most instances using the local currency of the subsidiary as the functional currency. Revenues and expenses of these businesses are generally translated into U.S. Dollars at the average
exchange rate for the period. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of the reporting period. Gains or losses from translating the financial statements of foreign-based operations are included in shareholders 
equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the reporting entity are included in earnings.   

(s)   
   Income taxes         Berkshire
files a consolidated federal income tax return in the United States, which includes our eligible subsidiaries. In addition, we file income tax returns in state, local and foreign jurisdictions as applicable. Provisions for current income tax
liabilities are calculated and accrued on income and expense amounts expected to be included in the income tax returns for the current year. Income taxes reported in earnings also include deferred income tax provisions.   
  Deferred income taxes are calculated under the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed on differences
between the financial statement bases and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. Changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities that are associated with components of other comprehensive income are charged or credited
directly to other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included as a component of income tax expense. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities attributable to changes in enacted
tax rates are charged or credited to income tax expense in the period of enactment. Valuation allowances are established for certain deferred tax assets where realization is not likely.   
  Assets and liabilities are established for uncertain tax positions taken or positions expected to be taken in income tax returns when such
positions are judged to not meet the  more-likely-than-not  threshold based on the technical merits of the positions. Estimated interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are generally included as a component of income tax
expense.       

(t)   
   New accounting pronouncements adopted in 2013         In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02,  Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income.  ASU 2013-02 requires additional disclosures concerning the
amounts reclassified out of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income and into net earnings during the reporting period. We adopted ASU 2013-02 on January 1, 2013 and the required disclosures are included in Note 20.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(t)   
   New accounting pronouncements adopted in 2013 (Continued)          
   In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11,  Disclosures about Offsetting Assets
and Liabilities  and in January 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-01,  Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.  ASU 2011-11, as clarified, applies to derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities
lending transactions and requires companies to disclose gross and net information about financial instruments and derivatives eligible for offset and to disclose financial instruments and derivatives subject to master netting arrangements in
financial statements. In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU 2012-02,  Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment.  ASU 2012-02 allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors in determining whether it is more-likely-than
not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, and if certain criteria are met, permits the entity to forego performing a quantitative impairment test. ASU s 2011-11 and 2012-02 were adopted on January 1, 2013 and had an
immaterial effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(u)   
   New accounting pronouncements to be adopted subsequent to December 31, 2013      
  In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-04,  Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability Arrangements for Which the
Total Amount of the Obligation Is Fixed at the Reporting Date.  ASU 2013-04 requires an entity to measure obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting
date as the amount the reporting entity agreed to pay plus additional amounts the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. ASU 2013-04 is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2013.
     In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-01  Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Tax
Credits.  ASU 2014-01 permits an entity to elect the proportional amortization method of accounting for limited liability investments in qualified affordable housing projects if certain criteria are met. Under the proportional amortization
method, the investment is amortized in proportion to the tax benefits received and the amortization charge is reported as a component of income tax expense. ASU 2014-01 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2014 with early
adoption permitted. If elected, the proportional amortization method is required to be applied retrospectively. We are currently evaluating the effect these standards will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   

(2)    Significant   
   business acquisitions      
   Our long-held acquisition strategy is to acquire businesses at sensible prices that have consistent earning power, good
returns on equity and able and honest management.      On December 19, 2013, MidAmerican acquired NV Energy, Inc. ( NV
Energy ), an energy holding company serving approximately 1.2 million electric and 0.2 million retail natural gas customers in Nevada. NV Energy s principal operating subsidiaries, Nevada Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power
Company, are regulated utilities. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, MidAmerican acquired all outstanding shares of NV Energy s common stock for approximately $5.6 billion. We accounted for the acquisition pursuant to the acquisition
method. NV Energy s financial results are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on the acquisition date.      The following table sets forth certain unaudited pro forma consolidated earnings data for 2013 and 2012, as if the NV Energy acquisition was consummated on the same terms at the beginning of 2012 (in
millions, except per share amounts).       
 
         76   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions   (Continued)            
   The following table summarizes the preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition for NV Energy (in millions).       
    In September 2011, Berkshire acquired The Lubrizol Corporation ( Lubrizol ) pursuant to an
agreement under which we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Lubrizol common stock for cash of approximately $8.7 billion. Lubrizol, based in Cleveland, Ohio, is an innovative specialty chemical company that produces and supplies technologies
to customers in the global transportation, industrial and consumer markets. These technologies include additives for engine oils, other transportation-related fluids and industrial lubricants, as well as additives for gasoline and diesel fuel. In
addition, Lubrizol makes ingredients and additives for personal care products and pharmaceuticals; specialty materials, including plastics; and performance coatings. Lubrizol s industry-leading technologies in additives, ingredients and
compounds enhance the quality, performance and value of customers  products, while reducing their environmental impact. We accounted for the Lubrizol acquisition pursuant to the acquisition method. Lubrizol s financial results are included
in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning as of the acquisition date.      In 2012 and 2013, we also completed several
smaller-sized business acquisitions, most of which were considered as  bolt-on  acquisitions to several of our existing business operations. Aggregate consideration paid for business acquisitions for 2013 was approximately $1.1 billion and
for 2012 was approximately $3.2 billion, which included $438 million for entities that will develop, construct and subsequently operate renewable energy generation facilities. We do not believe that these acquisitions were material, individually or
in the aggregate, to our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         77   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(3)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities      
   Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are summarized by type below
(in millions).       
    Investments in fixed maturity securities are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (in
millions).       
    In 2008, we acquired $4.4 billion par amount of 11.45% Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company ( Wrigley )
subordinated notes originally due in 2018 in conjunction with Mars, Incorporated s ( Mars ) acquisition of Wrigley. On August 30, 2013, the subordinated note agreement was amended to permit a repurchase of all of the Wrigley
subordinated notes on October 1, 2013 at a price of 115.45% of par and on that date the subordinated notes were repurchased for $5.08 billion, plus accrued interest. The subordinated notes were previously classified as held-to-maturity. In
2009, we also acquired Wrigley 5% senior notes, which are due in December 2014. The Wrigley senior notes are classified as held-to-maturity.      Investments in foreign government securities include securities issued by national and provincial government entities as well as instruments that are unconditionally guaranteed by such entities. As of
December 31, 2013, approximately 94% of foreign government holdings were rated AA or higher by at least one of the major rating agencies and securities issued or guaranteed by the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia, Canada and The Netherlands
represented 78% of these investments. Unrealized losses on all fixed maturity investments in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than twelve consecutive months were $26 million as of December 31, 2013 and $9 million as of
December 31, 2012.   
         78   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(3)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities   (Continued)        
   
   The amortized cost and estimated fair value of securities with fixed maturities at
December 31, 2013 are summarized below by contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers of certain of the securities retain early call or prepayment rights. Amounts are in millions.

(4)   
   Investments in equity securities      
   Investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are summarized based on the primary industry of
the investee in the table below (in millions).       

*   
   As of December 31, 2013, approximately 55% of the aggregate fair value was concentrated in the equity securities of four companies (American Express
Company $13.8 billion; Wells Fargo   Company $21.9 billion; International Business Machines Corporation $12.8 billion; and The Coca-Cola Company $16.5 billion).      

*   
   As of December 31, 2012, approximately 59% of the aggregate fair value was concentrated in the equity securities of four companies (American Express
Company $8.7 billion; Wells Fargo   Company $15.6 billion; International Business Machines Corporation $13.0 billion; and The Coca-Cola Company $14.5 billion).      
  In 2008, we acquired 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS )
( GS Preferred ) and warrants to purchase 43,478,260 shares of common stock of GS ( GS Warrants ) for a combined cost of $5 billion. In 2008, we also acquired 30,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of
General Electric ( GE ) ( GE Preferred ) and warrants to purchase 134,831,460 shares of common stock of GE ( GE Warrants ) for a combined cost of $3 billion. The GS Preferred and GE Preferred shares were redeemed
by GS and GE in 2011. When originally issued, the GS Warrants were exercisable until October 1, 2013 for an aggregate cost of $5 billion ($115/share), and the GE Warrants were exercisable until October 16, 2013 for an aggregate cost
of $3 billion ($22.25/share). In the first quarter of 2013, the terms of the GE Warrants and the GS Warrants were amended to provide solely for cashless exercises, whereupon we would receive shares of GS and GE common stock based on the excess,
if any, of the market prices, as defined, over the exercise prices, without payment of additional consideration. The warrants were exercised in October 2013 and we received 13,062,594 shares of GS common stock and 10,710,644 shares of GE common
stock. Our investments in the GS Warrants and GE Warrants and the common stock received upon the exercises of these warrants are included in the preceding tables.      As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we concluded that there were no unrealized losses that were other than temporary. Our conclusions were based on: (a) our ability and intent to hold the
securities to recovery; (b) our assessment that the underlying business and financial condition of each of these issuers was favorable; (c) our opinion that the relative price declines were not
  
         79   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(4)   
   Investments in equity securities   (Continued)            
   
significant; and (d) our belief that market prices will increase to and exceed our cost. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, unrealized losses on equity securities in a continuous
unrealized loss position for more than twelve consecutive months were $52 million and $45 million, respectively.      Investments
in equity securities are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (in millions).       

*   
   Included in other assets.          

(5)    Other   
   investments      
   Other investments include preferred stock of Wrigley, The Dow Chemical Company ( Dow ) and Bank of America
Corporation ( BAC ) as well as warrants to purchase common stock of BAC. Information concerning each of these investments follows.      In 2008, we acquired $2.1 billion liquidation amount of Wrigley preferred stock in conjunction with Mars  acquisition of Wrigley. The Wrigley preferred stock is entitled to dividends at a rate of
5% per annum. This investment is included in our Finance and Financial Products businesses.      In 2009, we acquired
3,000,000 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of Dow ( Dow Preferred ) for a cost of $3 billion. Each share of the Dow Preferred is convertible into 24.201 shares of Dow common stock (equivalent to a
conversion price of $41.32 per share). Beginning in April 2014, Dow shall have the right, at its option, to cause some or all of the Dow Preferred to be converted into Dow common stock at the then applicable conversion rate, if Dow s common
stock price exceeds $53.72 per share for any 20 trading days in a consecutive 30-day window ending on the day before Dow exercises its option. The Dow Preferred is entitled to dividends at a rate of 8.5% per annum. The Dow Preferred is included
in our Insurance and Other businesses.      In 2011, we acquired 50,000 shares of 6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of BAC
( BAC Preferred ) and warrants to purchase 700,000,000 shares of common stock of BAC ( BAC Warrants ) for a combined cost of $5 billion. The BAC Preferred is redeemable at any time by BAC at a price of $105,000 per share
($5.25 billion in aggregate). The BAC Warrants expire in 2021 and are exercisable for an additional aggregate cost of $5 billion ($7.142857/share). The BAC Preferred and BAC Warrants are included in our Insurance and Other businesses
(80%) and our Finance and Financial Products businesses (20%).      Our other investments are classified as
available-for-sale and are carried at fair value. In the aggregate, the cost of these investments was approximately $10.0 billion and the fair value was approximately $17.9 billion and $15.1 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

(6)    Investments   
   in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation      
   On June 7, 2013, Berkshire and an affiliate of the global investment firm 3G Capital (such affiliate,
 3G ), through a newly formed holding company, H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz Holding ), acquired H.J. Heinz Company ( Heinz ). Berkshire and 3G each made equity investments in Heinz Holding, which, together
with debt financing obtained by Heinz Holding, was used to acquire all outstanding common stock of Heinz for approximately $23.25 billion in the aggregate.   
  Heinz is one of the world s leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods
specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz      Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta, infant foods, Ore-Ida      potato products, Weight
Watchers      Smart Ones      entr es and T.G.I.
Friday s      snacks.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(6)   
   Investments in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation   (Continued)        
   
   Berkshire s investments in Heinz Holding consist of 425 million shares of
common stock, warrants to acquire approximately 46 million additional shares of common stock, and cumulative compounding preferred stock ( Preferred Stock ) with a liquidation preference of $8 billion. The aggregate cost of these
investments was $12.25 billion. 3G acquired 425 million shares of Heinz Holding common stock for $4.25 billion. In addition, Heinz Holding reserved 39.6 million shares of common stock for issuance under stock options.   
  The Preferred Stock possesses no voting rights except as required by law or for certain matters specified in the Heinz Holding charter.
The Preferred Stock is entitled to dividends at 9% per annum whether or not declared, is senior in priority to the common stock and is callable after June 7, 2016 at the liquidation value plus an applicable premium and any accrued and
unpaid dividends. Under the Heinz Holding charter and a shareholders  agreement entered into as of the acquisition date (the  shareholders  agreement ), after June 7, 2021, Berkshire can cause Heinz Holding to attempt to
sell shares of common stock through public offerings or other issuances ( redemption offerings ), the proceeds of which would be required to be used to redeem any outstanding shares of Preferred Stock. The warrants are exercisable for one
cent per share and expire on June 7, 2018.      Berkshire and 3G each currently own 50% of the outstanding shares of common
stock and possess equal voting interests in Heinz Holding. Under the shareholders  agreement, unless and until Heinz Holding engages in a public offering, Berkshire and 3G each must approve all significant transactions and governance matters
involving Heinz Holding and Heinz so long as Berkshire and 3G each continue to hold at least 66% of their initial common stock investments, except for (i) the declaration and payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, and actions related to a
Heinz Holding call of the Preferred Stock, for which Berkshire does not have a vote or approval right, and (ii) redemption offerings and redemptions resulting therefrom, which may only be triggered by Berkshire. No dividends may be paid on the
common stock if there are any unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock.      We are accounting for our investments in Heinz Holding
common stock and common stock warrants on the equity method. Accordingly, we have included our proportionate share of net earnings attributable to common stockholders and other comprehensive income in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings and
Comprehensive Income beginning as of June 7, 2013. We have concluded that our investment in Preferred Stock represents an equity investment and it is carried at cost in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The combined carrying value of our
investments in Heinz Holding was $12.1 billion as of December 31, 2013. Dividends earned in connection with the Preferred Stock and our share of Heinz Holding s net loss attributable to common stockholders are included in interest,
dividend and other investment income of Insurance and Other in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.      Summarized
consolidated financial information of Heinz Holding and its subsidiaries follows (in millions).       

*   
   Includes dividends earned less Berkshire s share of net loss attributable to common stockholders.      
         81   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(7)    Investment   
   gains/losses      
   Investment gains/losses, including other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) losses, for each of the three
years ending December 31, 2013 are summarized below (in millions).       
    Investment gains from fixed maturity investments in 2013 included a gain of $680 million related to
Mars/Wrigley s repurchase of the Wrigley subordinated notes as well as gains from the dispositions and conversions of corporate bonds. Other investment gains/losses in 2013 included $1.4 billion related to the changes in the valuations of the
GE and GS warrants. Investment gains from equity securities in 2011 included $1.8 billion with respect to the redemptions of our GS and GE preferred stock investments.      We record investments in equity and fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale at fair value and record the difference between fair value and cost in other comprehensive income. OTTI
losses recognized in earnings represent reductions in the cost basis of the investment, but not the fair value. Accordingly, such losses that are included in earnings are generally offset by a corresponding credit to other comprehensive income and
therefore have no net effect on shareholders  equity as of the balance sheet date.      We recorded OTTI losses on bonds
issued by Texas Competitive Electric Holdings ( TCEH ) of $228 million in 2013, $337 million in 2012 and $390 million in 2011. In 2011, OTTI losses also included $337 million with respect to 103.6 million shares of our investment in
Wells Fargo   Company ( Wells Fargo ) common stock. These shares had an aggregate original cost of $3.6 billion. On March 31, 2011, when we recorded the losses, we also held an additional 255.4 million shares of Wells
Fargo which were acquired at an aggregate cost of $4.4 billion and which had unrealized gains of $3.7 billion. However, the unrealized gains were not reflected in earnings but were instead recorded directly in shareholders  equity as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income.       

(8)    Receivables   
        
   Receivables of insurance and other businesses are comprised of the following (in millions).   
   
    Loans and finance receivables of finance and financial products businesses are comprised of the following
(in millions).       
 
         82   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(8)   
   Receivables   (Continued)            
   Consumer installment loans represent approximately 95% and 96% of the aggregate consumer
installment loans, commercial loans and finance receivables as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Allowances for uncollectible loans predominantly relate to consumer installment loans. Provisions for loan losses for 2013 and 2012 were
$249 million and $312 million, respectively. Loan charge-offs, net of recoveries, were $266 million in 2013 and $339 million in 2012. Loan amounts are net of unamortized acquisition discounts of $406 million at December 31, 2013 and
$459 million at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013, approximately 94% of the loan balances were evaluated collectively for impairment, and the remainder were evaluated individually for impairment. As a part of the evaluation process,
credit quality indicators are reviewed and loans are designated as performing or non-performing. At December 31, 2013, approximately 98% of the loan balances were determined to be performing and approximately 93% of those balances were current
as to payment status.       

(9)    Inventories   
        
   Inventories are comprised of the following (in millions).   

(10)   
   Property, plant and equipment      
   Property, plant and equipment of our insurance and other businesses is comprised of the following (in millions).
      
    Assets held for lease consist primarily of railroad tank cars, intermodal tank containers and other
equipment in the transportation and equipment services businesses. As of December 31, 2013, the minimum future lease rentals to be received on assets held for lease (including rail cars leased from others) were as follows (in millions):
2014   $855; 2015   $709; 2016   $559; 2017   $405; 2018   $253; and thereafter   $333.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(10)   
   Property, plant and equipment   (Continued)            
   Property, plant and equipment of our railroad and our utilities and energy businesses is
comprised of the following (in millions).       
    Railroad property, plant and equipment includes the land, other roadway, track structure and rolling
stock (primarily locomotives and freight cars) of BNSF. The utility generation, distribution and transmission system and interstate pipeline assets are the regulated assets of public utility and natural gas pipeline subsidiaries. Utility and energy
net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2013 included approximately $9.6 billion attributable to NV Energy, which was acquired on December 19, 2013.   

(11)   
   Goodwill and other intangible assets      
   A reconciliation of the change in the carrying value of goodwill is as follows (in millions).   
   
    Intangible assets other than goodwill are included in other assets and are summarized as follows
(in millions).       
 
         84   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(11)   
   Goodwill and other intangible assets   (Continued)        
   
   Amortization expense was $1,090 million in 2013, $1,008 million in 2012 and
$809 million in 2011. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows (in millions): 2014   $1,052; 2015   $752; 2016   $692; 2017   $648 and 2018   $635. Intangible assets with indefinite
lives as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $2,221 million and $2,328 million, respectively.       

(12)   
   Derivative contracts      
   Derivative contracts have been entered into primarily by our finance and financial products and our energy businesses.
Substantially all of the derivative contracts of our finance and financial products businesses are not designated as hedges for financial reporting purposes. Changes in the fair values of such contracts are reported in earnings as derivative
gains/losses. We entered into these contracts with the expectation that the premiums received would exceed the amounts ultimately paid to counterparties. A summary of derivative contracts of our finance and financial products businesses follows
(in millions).       

(1)  
    
     Represents the aggregate undiscounted amount payable at the contract expiration dates assuming that the value of each index is zero at each
contract s expiration date.           

(2)  
    
     Represents the maximum undiscounted future value of losses payable under the contracts, if all underlying issuers default and the residual value of
the specified obligations is zero.           

(3)  
    
     Included in other assets of finance and financial products businesses.       
  Derivative gains/losses of our finance and financial products businesses included in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings were as
follows (in millions).       
    We have written no new equity index put option contracts since February 2008. The currently outstanding
contracts are European style options written on four major equity indexes. Future payments, if any, under any given contract will be required if the underlying index value is below the strike price at the contract expiration date. We received the
premiums on these contracts in full at the contract inception dates and therefore have no counterparty credit risk.      The
aggregate intrinsic value (which is the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled based on the index values and foreign currency exchange rates as of the balance sheet date) of our equity index put option contracts was approximately
$1.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and $3.9 billion at December 31, 2012. However, these contracts may not be unilaterally terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates which occur between June 2018 and January 2026. Therefore,
the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be determined for many years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately 7.0 years at December 31, 2013.   
  Prior to March 2009, credit default contracts were written on various indexes of non-investment grade (or  high yield )
corporate issuers, as well as investment grade corporate and state/municipal debt issuers. These contracts cover the loss in value of specified debt obligations of the issuers arising from default events, which are usually from their failure to make
payments or bankruptcy. Loss amounts are subject to contract limits. During 2013, all of our remaining high yield and investment grade corporate issuer contracts expired.   
         85   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(12)   
   Derivative contracts   (Continued)            
   At December 31, 2013 our remaining credit default contract exposures relate to more
than 500 municipal debt issues with maturities ranging from 2019 to 2054 and that have an aggregate notional value of approximately $7.8 billion. The underlying debt issues have a weighted average maturity of approximately 17.75 years. Pursuant to
the contract terms, future loss payments, if any, cannot be settled before the maturity dates of the underlying obligations. We have no counterparty credit risk under these contracts because all premiums were received at the inception of the
contracts.      A limited number of our equity index put option contracts contain collateral posting requirements with respect to
changes in the fair value or intrinsic value of the contracts and/or a downgrade of Berkshire s credit ratings. As of December 31, 2013, we did not have any collateral posting requirements and at December 31, 2012, our posting
requirements were $40 million. If Berkshire s credit ratings (currently AA from Standard   Poor s and Aa2 from Moody s) are downgraded below either A- by Standard   Poor s or A3 by Moody s, additional
collateral of up to $1.1 billion could be required to be posted.      Our regulated utility subsidiaries are exposed to variations
in the prices of fuel required to generate electricity, wholesale electricity purchased and sold and natural gas supplied for customers. Derivative instruments, including forward purchases and sales, futures, swaps and options, are used to manage a
portion of these price risks. Derivative contract assets are included in other assets of railroad, utilities and energy businesses and were $87 million and $49 million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Derivative
contract liabilities are included in accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities of railroad, utilities and energy businesses and were $208 million and $234 million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.
Unrealized gains and losses under the contracts of our regulated utilities that are probable of recovery through rates are recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities. Unrealized gains or losses on contracts accounted for as cash flow or fair value
hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income or in net earnings, as appropriate.       

(13)   
   Supplemental cash flow information      
   A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years ending December 31, 2013 is presented
in the following table (in millions).       
 
         86   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses      
   The liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon estimates of the ultimate claim costs
associated with property and casualty claim occurrences as of the balance sheet dates including estimates for incurred but not reported ( IBNR ) claims. Considerable judgment is required to evaluate claims and establish estimated claim
liabilities. A reconciliation of the changes in liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of our property/casualty insurance subsidiaries for each of the three years ending December 31, 2013 is as follows (in millions).
      
    Incurred losses recorded during the current year but attributable to a prior accident year ( prior
accident years ) reflect the amount of estimation error charged or credited to earnings in each calendar year with respect to the liabilities established as of the beginning of that year. Incurred losses shown in the preceding table include the
impact of deferred charge assets established in connection with retroactive reinsurance contracts and discounting of certain assumed workers  compensation liabilities. Deferred charge and loss discount balances represent time value discounting
of the related ultimate estimated claim liabilities.      Before the effects of deferred charges and loss discounting, we reduced
the beginning of the year net losses and loss adjustment expenses liability by $1,938 million in 2013, $2,507 million in 2012 and $2,780 million in 2011. In each of the years, the reduction primarily derived from reinsurance assumed business and
from private passenger auto and medical malpractice coverages. The reductions in liabilities related to reinsurance assumed business, excluding retroactive reinsurance, were attributable to generally lower than expected reported losses from ceding
companies with respect to both property and casualty coverages. Individual underlying claim counts and average amounts per claim are not utilized by our reinsurance assumed businesses because clients do not consistently provide reliable data in
sufficient detail. In 2013, we increased liabilities under retroactive reinsurance contracts by approximately $300 million primarily due to net increases in asbestos and environmental liabilities. In 2011, we recorded a $1.1 billion reduction in
retroactive reinsurance liabilities primarily due to lower than expected losses under one contract. The reductions in private passenger auto liabilities reflected lower than previously anticipated bodily injury and personal injury protection
severities. The reductions in medical malpractice liabilities reflected lower than originally anticipated claims frequencies and severities. Accident year loss estimates are regularly adjusted to consider emerging loss development patterns of prior
years  losses, whether favorable or unfavorable.      Incurred losses for prior accident years also include charges
associated with the changes in deferred charge balances related to retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior to the beginning of the year and net discounts recorded on liabilities for certain workers  compensation claims. The aggregate
charges included in prior accident years  incurred losses were $186 million in 2013, $381 million in 2012 and $578 million in 2011. Net discounted workers  compensation liabilities at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were
$2,066 million and $2,155 million, respectively, reflecting net discounts of $1,866 million and $1,990 million, respectively.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        
   
   We are exposed to environmental, asbestos and other latent injury claims arising from
insurance and reinsurance contracts. Liability estimates for environmental and asbestos exposures include case basis reserves and also reflect reserves for legal and other loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are based upon our
historic general liability exposure base and policy language, previous environmental loss experience and the assessment of current trends of environmental law, environmental cleanup costs, asbestos liability law and judgmental settlements of
asbestos liabilities.      The liabilities for environmental, asbestos and other latent injury claims and claims expenses net of
reinsurance recoverables were approximately $13.7 billion at December 31, 2013 and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2012. These liabilities included approximately $11.9 billion at December 31, 2013 and $12.4 billion
at December 31, 2012 of liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Liabilities arising from retroactive contracts with exposure to claims of this nature are generally subject to aggregate policy limits. Thus, our exposure to
environmental and other latent injury claims under these contracts is, likewise, limited. We monitor evolving case law and its effect on environmental and other latent injury claims. Changing government regulations, newly identified toxins, newly
reported claims, new theories of liability, new contract interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in these liabilities. Such development could be material to our results of operations. We are unable to reliably
estimate the amount of additional net loss or the range of net loss that is reasonably possible.       

(15)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings      
   Notes payable and other borrowings are summarized below (in millions). The weighted average interest rates and
maturity date ranges shown in the following tables are based on borrowings as of December 31, 2013.       
    In 2013, Berkshire issued $2.6 billion of senior notes with interest rates ranging from 0.8% to 4.5% and
maturities that range from 2016 to 2043 and repaid $2.6 billion of maturing senior notes.       
    As of December 31, 2013, MidAmerican subsidiary debt included approximately $5.3 billion of debt of
NV Energy and its regulated utility subsidiaries. In addition, MidAmerican issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes in connection with funding the NV Energy acquisition. The new senior unsecured notes were issued with interest rates ranging
from 1.1% to 5.15% and maturities ranging from 2017 to 2043. MidAmerican subsidiary debt represents amounts issued pursuant to separate financing agreements. All, or substantially all, of the assets of certain MidAmerican subsidiaries are, or may
be, pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise secure the debt. These borrowing arrangements generally contain various covenants including, but not limited to, leverage ratios, interest coverage ratios and debt service coverage ratios. In 2013,
MidAmerican subsidiaries issued term debt of $2.5 billion in the aggregate and MidAmerican and its subsidiaries repaid approximately $2.0 billion of term debt and short-term borrowings.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(15)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings   (Continued)            
   In 2013, BNSF issued $3.0 billion of debentures with interest rates ranging from 3.0% to
5.15% and maturities in 2023 ($1.5 billion) and 2043 ($1.5 billion). BNSF s borrowings are primarily unsecured. As of December 31, 2013, BNSF and MidAmerican and their subsidiaries were in compliance with all applicable debt covenants.
Berkshire does not guarantee any debt or other borrowings of BNSF, MidAmerican or their subsidiaries.       
    The borrowings of BHFC, a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Berkshire, are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by Berkshire. During 2013, $3.45 billion of BHFC senior notes matured and BHFC issued $3.45 billion of new senior notes to replace maturing notes. The new senior notes were issued with interest rates ranging from 0.95% to 4.3% and
maturities ranging from 2017 to 2043.      Our subsidiaries have approximately $6.3 billion in the aggregate of unused lines of
credit and commercial paper capacity at December 31, 2013, to support short-term borrowing programs and provide additional liquidity. In addition to borrowings of BHFC, as of December 31, 2013, Berkshire guaranteed approximately $3.9
billion of other subsidiary borrowings. Generally, Berkshire s guarantee of a subsidiary s debt obligation is an absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment
obligations.      Principal repayments expected during each of the next five years are as follows (in millions).   

The liabilities for income taxes reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows (in millions).

89   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(16)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)            
   The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are shown below (in millions).       
    We have not established deferred income taxes with respect to undistributed earnings of certain foreign
subsidiaries. Earnings expected to remain reinvested indefinitely were approximately $9.3 billion as of December 31, 2013. Upon distribution as dividends or otherwise, such amounts would be subject to taxation in the U.S. as well as
foreign countries. However, U.S. income tax liabilities would be offset, in whole or in part, by allowable tax credits deriving from income taxes previously paid to foreign jurisdictions. Further, repatriation of all earnings of foreign subsidiaries
would be impracticable to the extent that such earnings represent capital needed to support normal business operations in those jurisdictions. As a result, we currently believe that any incremental U.S. income tax liabilities arising from the
repatriation of distributable earnings of foreign subsidiaries would not be material.      Income tax expense reflected in our
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the three years ending December 31, 2013 is as follows (in millions).       
 
         90   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(16)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)            
   Income tax expense is reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the U.S. federal
statutory rate for each of the three years ending December 31, 2013 in the table below (in millions).       
    We file income tax returns in the United States and in state, local and foreign jurisdictions. We are
under examination by the taxing authorities in many of these jurisdictions. We have settled tax return liabilities with U.S. federal taxing authorities for years before 2005. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) has completed the
exams of the 2005 though 2009 tax years. Berkshire and the IRS have informally resolved all proposed adjustments in connection with these years with the IRS Appeals division and expect formal settlements within the next twelve months. The IRS
continues to audit Berkshire s consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2010 and 2011 tax years. We are also under audit or subject to audit with respect to income taxes in many state and foreign jurisdictions. It is reasonably
possible that certain of our income tax examinations will be settled within the next twelve months. We currently do not believe that the outcome of unresolved issues or claims is likely to be material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
     At December 31, 2013 and 2012, net unrecognized tax benefits were $692 million and $866 million, respectively.
Included in the balance at December 31, 2013, are $560 million of tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. The remaining balance in net unrecognized tax benefits principally relates to tax positions for which
the ultimate recognition is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such recognition. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the difference in recognition period would not
affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period. As of December 31, 2013, we do not expect any material changes to the estimated amount of unrecognized tax benefits in
the next twelve months.       

(17)   
   Dividend restrictions   Insurance subsidiaries      
   Payments of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior
regulatory approval, our principal insurance subsidiaries may declare up to approximately $13 billion as ordinary dividends before the end of 2014.      Combined shareholders  equity of U.S. based property/casualty insurance subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Statutory Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately
$129 billion at December 31, 2013 and $106 billion at December 31, 2012. Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the basis of GAAP due to differences in accounting for certain assets and liabilities.
For instance, deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition costs, certain unrealized gains and losses on investments in fixed maturity securities and related deferred income taxes are recognized for GAAP but not for statutory
reporting purposes. In addition, under statutory reporting, goodwill is amortized over 10 years, whereas under GAAP, goodwill is not amortized and is subject to periodic tests for impairment.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(18)   
   Fair value measurements      
   Our financial assets and liabilities are summarized below as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 with
fair values shown according to the fair value hierarchy (in millions). The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities are considered to be reasonable estimates of their fair
values.       

(1)      
     Assets are included in other assets and liabilities are included in accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities. 
     
         92   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(18)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
   The fair values of substantially all of our financial instruments were measured using
market or income approaches. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the fair values presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized
in an actual current market exchange. The use of alternative market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. The hierarchy for measuring fair value consists of Levels 1 through 3, which are
described below.       Level 1    Inputs represent unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged
in active markets.       Level 2    Inputs include directly or indirectly observable inputs (other than Level 1 inputs)
such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities exchanged in active or inactive markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged in inactive markets; other inputs that may be considered in fair value determinations of the
assets or liabilities, such as interest rates and yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, loss severities, credit risks and default rates; and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation
or other means. Pricing evaluations generally reflect discounted expected future cash flows, which incorporate yield curves for instruments with similar characteristics, such as credit ratings, estimated durations and yields for other instruments of
the issuer or entities in the same industry sector.       Level 3    Inputs include unobservable inputs used in the
measurement of assets and liabilities. Management is required to use its own assumptions regarding unobservable inputs because there is little, if any, market activity in the assets or liabilities and we may be unable to corroborate the related
observable inputs. Unobservable inputs require management to make certain projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market participants in pricing assets or liabilities.   
  Reconciliations of assets and liabilities measured and carried at fair value on a recurring basis with the use of significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) for each of three years ending December 31, 2013 follow (in millions).       
 
         93   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(18)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
   Gains and losses included in earnings are included as components of investment
gains/losses, derivative gains/losses and other revenues, as appropriate and are primarily related to changes in the values of derivative contracts and settlement transactions. Gains and losses included in other comprehensive income are included as
components of the net change in unrealized appreciation of investments and the reclassification of investment appreciation in earnings, as appropriate in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.   
  In 2013, we transferred the fair value measurements of the GS Warrants and GE Warrants out of Level 3 because we concluded that the
unobservable inputs were no longer significant. In 2011, our investments in GS Preferred and GE Preferred were redeemed at the options of the issuers and were transferred out of Level 3 in the quarterly periods prior to the redemptions. In 2011, we
acquired investments in BAC Preferred and BAC Warrants for an aggregate cost of $5.0 billion.      Quantitative information as of
December 31, 2013, with respect to assets and liabilities measured and carried at fair value on a recurring basis with the use of significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) follows (in millions).   

Fair value   

Principal valuation   
   techniques    
      
     Unobservable Inputs    
      
   Weighted Average    

Other investments:   

Preferred stocks   
      
  $  
  12,092  

Discounted cash flow  
      
  Expected duration  
      
  7 years   

Discount for transferability restrictions and subordination  
      
  97 basis points   

Common stock warrants   

5,859  

Warrant pricing model  
      
  Discount for transferability and hedging restrictions  
      
  9%   
 
    Net derivative liabilities:   

Equity index put options   

4,667  

Option pricing model  
      
  Volatility  
      
  21%   

Credit default-states/  municipalities   

648  

Discounted cash flow  
      
  Credit spreads  
      
  124 basis points   
    Other investments currently consist of investments that were acquired in a few relatively large private
placement transactions and include preferred stocks and common stock warrants. These investments are subject to contractual restrictions on transferability and/or provisions that prevent us from economically hedging our investments. In applying
discounted estimated cash flow techniques in valuing the perpetual preferred stocks, we made assumptions regarding the expected durations of the investments, as the issuers may have the right to redeem or convert these investments. We also made
estimates regarding the impact of subordination, as the preferred stocks have a lower priority in liquidation than debt instruments of the issuers, which affected the discount rates used. In valuing the common stock warrants, we used a warrant
valuation model. While most of the inputs to the model are observable, we are subject to the aforementioned contractual restrictions. We have applied discounts with respect to the contractual restrictions. Increases or decreases to these inputs
would result in decreases or increases to the fair values of the investments.      Our equity index put option and credit default
contracts are not exchange traded and certain contract terms are not standard in derivatives markets. For example, we are not required to post collateral under most of our contracts and many contracts have long durations, and therefore are illiquid.
For these and other reasons, we classified these contracts as Level 3. The methods we use to value these contracts are those that we believe market participants would use in determining exchange prices with respect to our contracts.   
  We value equity index put option contracts based on the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Inputs to this model include current index
price, contract duration, dividend and interest rate inputs (including a Berkshire non-performance input) which are observable. However, we believe that the valuation of long-duration options using any model is inherently subjective, given the lack
of observable transactions and prices, and acceptable values may be subject to wide ranges. Expected volatility inputs represent our expectations after considering the remaining duration of each contract and that the contracts will remain
outstanding until the expiration dates without offsetting transactions occurring in the interim. Increases or decreases in the volatility inputs will produce increases or decreases in the fair values of the liabilities.   
  The fair values of our state and municipality credit default exposures reflect credit spreads, contract durations, interest rates, bond
prices and other inputs believed to be used by market participants in estimating fair value. We utilize discounted cash flow valuation models, which incorporate the aforementioned inputs as well as our own estimates of credit spreads for states and
municipalities where there is no observable input. Increases or decreases to the credit spreads will produce increases or decreases in the fair values of the liabilities.   
         94   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

Changes in Berkshire s issued and outstanding common stock during the three years ending December 31, 2013
are shown in the table below.       
    Each Class A common share is entitled to one vote per share. Class B common stock possesses dividend
and distribution rights equal to one-fifteen-hundredth (1/1,500) of such rights of Class A common stock. Each Class B common share possesses voting rights equivalent to one-ten-thousandth (1/10,000) of the voting rights of a
Class A share. Unless otherwise required under Delaware General Corporation Law, Class A and Class B common shares vote as a single class. Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into 1,500
shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is not convertible into Class A common stock. On an equivalent Class A common stock basis, there were 1,643,954 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013 and 1,642,945 shares
outstanding as of December 31, 2012. In addition to our common stock, 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock are authorized, but none are issued and outstanding.      In September 2011, Berkshire s Board of Directors ( Berkshire s Board ) approved a common stock repurchase program under which Berkshire may repurchase its Class A and Class B
shares at prices no higher than a 10% premium over the book value of the shares. In December 2012, Berkshire s Board amended the repurchase program by raising the price limit to no higher than a 20% premium over book value. Berkshire may
repurchase shares in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. Berkshire s Board authorization does not specify a maximum number of shares to be repurchased. However, repurchases will not be made if they would reduce
Berkshire s consolidated cash equivalent holdings below $20 billion. The repurchase program is expected to continue indefinitely and the amount of repurchases will depend entirely upon the level of cash available, the attractiveness of
investment and business opportunities either at hand or on the horizon, and the degree of discount of the market price relative to management s estimate of intrinsic value. The repurchase program does not obligate Berkshire to repurchase any
dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B shares and there is no expiration date to the program. There were no share purchases in 2013. In December 2012, Berkshire repurchased 9,475 Class A shares and 606,499 Class B shares for
approximately $1.3 billion through a privately negotiated transaction and market purchases.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(20)   
   Accumulated other comprehensive income      
   A summary of the net changes in after-tax accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Berkshire Hathaway
shareholders for each of the three years ending December 31, 2013 and significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2013 follows (in millions).   

Several of our subsidiaries individually sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees. Benefits
under the plans are generally based on years of service and compensation, although benefits under certain plans are based on years of service and fixed benefit rates. Our subsidiaries make contributions to the plans, generally, to meet regulatory
requirements. Additional amounts may be contributed on a discretionary basis.      The components of net periodic pension expense
for each of the three years ending December 31, 2013 are as follows (in millions).       
 
         96   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(21)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits earned
based on service and compensation prior to the valuation date. The projected benefit obligation ( PBO ) is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based upon service and compensation prior to the valuation date and, if applicable,
includes assumptions regarding future compensation levels. Benefit obligations under qualified U.S. defined benefit pension plans are funded through assets held in trusts. Pension obligations under certain non-U.S. plans and non-qualified U.S. plans
are unfunded. PBOs of non-qualified U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans which are not funded through assets held in trusts were approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. MidAmerican s pension plans cover employees of its
various regulated subsidiaries. The costs associated with these regulated operations are generally recoverable through the regulated rate making process.      Reconciliations of the changes in Plan assets and PBOs related to MidAmerican s pension plans and all other pension plans for each of the two years ending December 31, 2013 are in the following
tables (in millions).       
    The net funded status is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (in millions).

97   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(21)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   Fair value measurements of Plan assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 follow
(in millions).       
    Refer to Note 18 for a discussion of the three levels in the hierarchy of fair values. Plan assets
measured at fair value with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ending December 31, 2013 and 2012 consisted primarily of real estate and limited partnership interests. Plan assets are generally invested with the long-term
objective of earning amounts sufficient to cover expected benefit obligations, while assuming a prudent level of risk. Allocations may change as a result of changing market conditions and investment opportunities. The expected rates of return on
Plan assets reflect subjective assessments of expected invested asset returns over a period of several years. Generally, past investment returns are not given significant consideration when establishing assumptions for expected long-term rates of
returns on Plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed rates.      Benefits payments expected over the next ten
years are as follows (in millions): 2014   $787; 2015   $802; 2016   $805; 2017   $816; 2018   $823; and 2019 to 2023   $4,253. Sponsoring subsidiaries expect to contribute $276 million to defined benefit
pension plans in 2014.      A reconciliation of the pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to defined
benefit pension plans for each of the two years ending December 31, 2013 follows (in millions).       
    Weighted average interest rate assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and net
periodic pension expense were as follows.       
 
         98   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(21)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   Several of our subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement plans, such as
401(k) or profit sharing plans. Employee contributions to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan provisions. Several of the plans provide that the subsidiary match these contributions up to levels specified in the
plans and provide for additional discretionary contributions as determined by management. Employer contributions expensed with respect to these plans were $690 million, $637 million and $572 million for the years ending December 31,
2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       

(22)   
   Contingencies and Commitments      
   We are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal
actions affect our insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs
occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved
in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties. We believe that any liability that may arise as a result of other pending legal actions will not have a material effect on our
consolidated financial condition or results of operations.      We lease certain manufacturing, warehouse, retail and office
facilities as well as certain equipment. Rent expense for all operating leases was $1,396 million in 2013, $1,401 million in 2012 and $1,288 million in 2011. Future minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or remaining
non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Our subsidiaries regularly make commitments in the ordinary course of business to purchase goods and
services used in their businesses. The most significant of these commitments relate to our railroad, utilities and energy and fractional aircraft ownership businesses. As of December 31, 2013, future purchase commitments under such arrangements
are expected to be paid as follows: $15.5 billion in 2014, $6.4 billion in 2015, $4.1 billion in 2016, $3.8 billion in 2017, $3.5 billion in 2018 and $17.0 billion after 2018.   
  We have owned a controlling interest in Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ) since 2008 when we acquired 63.6% of its outstanding
shares of common stock. In 2010, we acquired 16.6% of its outstanding common stock for approximately $1.5 billion and in 2012, we acquired an additional 9.8% of its outstanding common stock for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.4 billion.
In 2013, we acquired an additional 9.7% of its outstanding common stock for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.47 billion of which $1.2 billion is payable in March 2014. As of December 31, 2013, we own substantially all of Marmon
outstanding common stock. On April 29, 2013, we acquired the remaining noncontrolling interests of IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V., the parent company of Iscar, for consideration of $2.05 billion. Berkshire now owns 100% of IMC
International Metalworking Companies B.V. Each of these transactions was accounted for as an acquisition of noncontrolling interests. The differences between the consideration paid or payable and the carrying amounts of these noncontrolling
interests were recorded as reductions in Berkshire s shareholders  equity and aggregated approximately $1.8 billion in 2013 and $700 million in 2012.      Pursuant to the terms of shareholder agreements with noncontrolling shareholders in our other less than wholly-owned subsidiaries, we may be obligated to acquire their equity ownership interests. If we
had acquired all outstanding noncontrolling interests as of December 31, 2013, we estimate the cost would have been approximately $3.1 billion. However, the timing and the amount of any such future payments that might be required are
contingent on future actions of the noncontrolling owners.      On October 16, 2013, Marmon announced it entered into an
agreement to acquire the beverage dispensing and merchandising operations of British engineering company, IMI plc for approximately $1.1 billion. The acquisition closed in January 2014.   
  On December 30, 2013, we entered into an agreement with Phillips 66 ( PSX ) whereby we would exchange up to the 20,668,118
shares of PSX common stock that we owned on that date for 100% of the outstanding common stock of PSX s flow improver business, Phillips Specialty Products Inc. ( PSPI ). Per the agreement, the exact number of shares of
PSX common   
         99   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)    

(22)   
   Contingencies and Commitments (Continued)          
   
stock to be exchanged was to be determined based upon the volume weighted average price of PSX common stock on the closing date. On February 25, 2014, the closing occurred and we exchanged
17,422,615 shares of PSX common stock for the outstanding common stock of PSPI. At the time of the closing, the assets of PSPI included approximately $450 million of cash and cash equivalents.   
  Berkshire has a 50% interest in a joint venture, Berkadia Commercial Mortgage ( Berkadia ), with Leucadia National Corporation
( Leucadia ) having the other 50% interest. Berkadia is a servicer of commercial real estate loans in the U.S., performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed
securities transactions, banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. A significant source of funding for Berkadia s operations is through the issuance of commercial paper. Repayment of the commercial paper is supported by a
$2.5 billion surety policy issued by a Berkshire insurance subsidiary. Leucadia has agreed to indemnify Berkshire for one-half of any losses incurred under the policy. As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate amount of Berkadia commercial paper
outstanding was $2.47 billion.       

(23)   
   Business segment data      
   Our reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects how management views those business
activities. Certain businesses have been grouped together for segment reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution characteristics, even though those business units are operated under separate local
management.      The tabular information that follows shows data of reportable segments reconciled to amounts reflected in our
Consolidated Financial Statements. Intersegment transactions are not eliminated in instances where management considers those transactions in assessing the results of the respective segments. Furthermore, our management does not consider investment
and derivative gains/losses or amortization of purchase accounting adjustments related to Berkshire s acquisition in assessing the performance of reporting units. Collectively, these items are included in reconciliations of segment amounts to
consolidated amounts.       

Business Identity    
      
     Business Activity     

GEICO  
      
  Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance mainly by direct response methods   

General Re  
      
  Underwriting excess-of-loss, quota-share and facultative reinsurance worldwide   

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group  
      
  Underwriting excess-of-loss and quota-share reinsurance for insurers and reinsurers   

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group  
      
  Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty insurance policies for primarily commercial accounts   

BNSF  
      
  Operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America   

Clayton Homes, XTRA, CORT and other financial services ( Finance and financial products )  
      
  Proprietary investing, manufactured housing and related consumer financing, transportation equipment leasing and furniture leasing   

Marmon  
      
  An association of approximately 160 manufacturing and service businesses that operate within 11 diverse business sectors   

McLane Company  
      
  Wholesale distribution of groceries and non-food items   

MidAmerican  
      
  Regulated electric and gas utility, including power generation and distribution activities in the U.S. and internationally; domestic real estate brokerage   
 
         100

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   Other businesses not specifically identified with reportable business segments consist
of a large, diverse group of manufacturing, service and retailing businesses. A disaggregation of our consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is presented in the tables which follow on this and the following two pages
(in millions).       

101

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            

    Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of the insured or reinsured) are
summarized below. Dollars are in millions.       
    In 2013, 2012 and 2011, premiums written and earned attributable to Western Europe were primarily in the
United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and Luxembourg. In 2012 and 2011, property/casualty insurance premiums earned included approximately $3.4 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, from a reinsurance contract with Swiss Reinsurance
Company Ltd. and its affiliates. This contract expired at the end of 2012 and is now in run-off. Life/health insurance premiums written and earned in the United States included approximately $1.5 billion in 2012 and 2011 from a single contract with
Swiss Re Life   Health America Inc., an affiliate of Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. This contract was amended in 2013 which resulted in significantly reduced premiums.   
  Consolidated sales and service revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $94.8 billion, $83.3 billion and $72.8 billion,
respectively. Approximately 85% of such amounts in 2013 were in the United States compared with approximately 84% in 2012 and 86% in 2011. The remainder of sales and service revenues were primarily in Europe and Canada. In each of the three years
ending December 31, 2013, consolidated sales and service revenues included sales of approximately $13 billion in 2013 and $12 billion in 2012 and 2011 to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
  Approximately 96% of our revenues in 2013, 2012 and 2011 from railroad, utilities and energy businesses were in the United States. In
each year, most of the remainder was attributed to the United Kingdom. At December 31, 2013, 92% of our consolidated net property, plant and equipment was located in the United States with the remainder primarily in Europe and Canada.
  
         102

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   Premiums written and earned by the property/casualty and life/health insurance
businesses are summarized below (in millions).       

A summary of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in the following table. This
information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.       

*  
   Includes realized investment gains/losses, other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments and derivative gains/losses. Derivative gains/losses include
significant amounts related to non-cash changes in the fair value of long-term contracts arising from short-term changes in equity prices, interest rates and foreign currency rates, among other factors. After-tax investment and derivative
gains/losses for the periods presented above are as follows (in millions):          

103

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      
  None       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures      
  At the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation s
disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation s disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to the Corporation (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation s periodic SEC filings. The report called for
by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, included on page 64 of this report. The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of
Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, included on page 65 of this report. There has been no change in the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting during
the quarter ended December 31, 2013 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         None
  
         104

Table of Contents  

      Part III    
  Except for the information set forth under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I hereof, information
required by this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on
May 3, 2014, which meeting will involve the election of directors.         Part IV    

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules      
  (a)1.  Financial Statements        The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included in Part II Item 8 of this report:   
   
    (b)  Exhibits        See the  Exhibit Index  at page 110.   
         105

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.       

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.   

Date: February 28, 2014  

/s/    M ARC  D. H AMBURG    

Marc D. Hamburg    

Senior Vice President and    

Principal Financial Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

/ S /     W ARREN  E.
B UFFETT               Warren E. Buffett    
      
    Chairman of the Board of  
  Directors Chief Executive Officer   
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     H OWARD  G.
B UFFETT               Howard G. Buffett    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     S TEPHEN  B.
B URKE               Stephen B. Burke    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     S USAN  L.
D ECKER               Susan L. Decker    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     W ILLIAM  H.
G ATES  III              William H. Gates III    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     D AVID  S.
G OTTESMAN               David S. Gottesman    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     C HARLOTTE 
G UYMAN               Charlotte Guyman    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     D ONALD  R.
K EOUGH               Donald R. Keough    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     C HARLES  T.
M UNGER               Charles T. Munger    
      
  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     T HOMAS  S.
M URPHY               Thomas S. Murphy    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     R ONALD  L.
O LSON               Ronald L. Olson    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     W ALTER 
S COTT , J R .              Walter Scott,
Jr.    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     M ERYL  B.
W ITMER               Meryl B. Witmer    
      
  Director  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     M ARC  D.
H AMBURG               Marc D. Hamburg    
      
  Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    

/ S /     D ANIEL  J.
J AKSICH               Daniel J. Jaksich    
      
  Vice President Principal Accounting Officer  
     
    February 28, 2014  
  Date    
 
         106

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      Omaha, Nebraska   
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, and have issued our report thereon dated
February 28, 2014; such consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This financial statement schedule is
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   
  Omaha, Nebraska      February 28, 2014
  
         107

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information        (Dollars in millions)    
   Schedule I    
   Balance Sheets        
     Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income    
   
     See Note to Condensed Financial Information    
         108

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information        (Dollars in millions)    
   Schedule I (continued)        Statements of Cash Flows        
     Note to Condensed Financial Information    
  On June 7, 2013, Berkshire and an affiliate of the global investment firm 3G Capital (such affiliate,  3G ), through a
newly formed holding company, H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz Holding ), acquired H.J. Heinz Company ( Heinz ). Berkshire and 3G each made equity investments in Heinz Holding, which, together with debt financing obtained
by Heinz Holding, was used to acquire Heinz for approximately $23.25 billion. Berkshire s investments in Heinz Holding consist of 425 million shares of common stock, warrants to acquire approximately 46 million additional shares of
common stock, and cumulative compounding preferred stock ( Preferred Stock ) with a liquidation preference of $8 billion. The aggregate cost of these investments was $12.25 billion. In January 2013, Berkshire issued $2.6 billion of new
senior notes with interest rates ranging from 0.8% to 4.5% and maturities that range from 2016 to 2043. In February 2013, Berkshire repaid $2.6 billion of maturing senior notes. Berkshire s borrowings at December 31, 2013 and 2012 also
included $311 million and $323 million, respectively, under investment agreements. Berkshire s aggregate borrowings as of December 31, 2013, mature in each of the next five years as follows: 2014 $751 million; 2015 $1,709
million; 2016 $1,051 million; 2017 $1,100 million; and 2018 $808 million.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has
guaranteed debt obligations of certain of its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2013, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt guaranteed by Berkshire totaled approximately $15 billion. Berkshire s guarantee of subsidiary debt is an absolute,
unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment obligations. Berkshire also provides guarantees in connection with long-term equity index put option and credit default contracts
entered into by a subsidiary. The estimated fair value of liabilities recorded under such contracts was approximately $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2013. The amount of subsidiary payments under these contracts, if any, is contingent upon
future events and will not be fully known for several years.   
         109

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX    

Exhibit No.    

2(i)  
     
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Registrant and General Re Corporation.    

Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.    

2(ii)  
     
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 2, 2009 by and among Berkshire, R Acquisition Company, LLC and BNSF.
Incorporated by reference to Annex A to Registration Statement No. 333-163343 on  Form S-4.     

3(i)  
     
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2010.    

3(ii)  
     
    By-Laws    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 8-K filed on November 9, 2010.    

4.1  
     
    Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The Bank of
New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 on Form S-4 of Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed
on February 4, 2004.    

4.2  
     
    Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2010, among Berkshire, Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon
Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Berkshire s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on February 1,
2010.    

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities authorized by all
other such instruments does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2013. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of any such debt
instrument to which it is a party.    

10.1  
     
    Equity Commitment Letter of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. with Hawk Acquisition Holding Corporation
dated February 13, 2013.     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 on Form 8-K of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. filed on February 14, 2013.    

12  
     
    Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges    

14  
     
    Code of Ethics    

Berkshire s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on its Internet website
at      www.berkshirehathaway.com     

21  
     
    Subsidiaries of Registrant    

23  
     
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

31  
     
    Rule 13a 14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications    

32  
     
    Section 1350 Certifications    

95  
     
    Mine Safety Disclosures    

101  
     
  The following financial information from Berkshire Hathaway Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business
Reporting Language) includes: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (iii) Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (v) the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule I, tagged in summary and detail.   
 
         110

<EX-12>
 2
 d656225dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 12    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges    
   (Dollars in millions)        

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 d656225dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2013    

Company Name    

Domicile or State of Incorporation     

Acme Brick Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Acme Building Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Albecca Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Anderson Hardwood Floors, LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Applied Underwriters, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Ben Bridge Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Ben Bridge Jeweler, Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    Benjamin Moore   Co.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Benjamin Moore   Co., Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Benson Industries, Inc.   
      
  Oregon   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (UK)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    BH Media Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BHSF, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH Finance LLC   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    BH Shoe Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNSF Railway Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boat America Corporation   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Brooks Sports, Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    The Buffalo News, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bushwick Metals LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Business Wire, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    California Insurance Company   
      
  California   
 
    Campbell Hausfeld/Scott Fetzer Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CE Electric UK Holdings   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Central States Indemnity Co. of Omaha   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Central States of Omaha Companies, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Cerro Flow Products LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cerro Wire LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Chemtool Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clal U.S. Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clayton Homes, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CMH Homes, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    CMH Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    CMH Parks, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    Columbia Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    CORT Business Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CTB International Corp.   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Cubic Designs, Inc.   
      
  Wisconsin   
 
    Cypress Insurance Company   
      
  California   
 
    Delta Wholesale Liquors, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    Ecowater Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Empire Distributors, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Empire Distributors of North Carolina, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2013    

Company Name    

Domicile or State of Incorporation     

EXSIF Worldwide, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Faraday Reinsurance Co. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Faraday Underwriting Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The Fechheimer Brothers Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FlightSafety International Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    FlightSafety Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Forest River, Inc.   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Freo Group Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Fruit of the Loom, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Garan, Incorporated   
      
  Virginia   
 
    GEICO Advantage Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    GEICO Casualty Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Choice Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    GEICO Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEICO General Insurance Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Indemnity Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Secure Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    GRD Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gen Re Intermediaries Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    General Re Life Corporation   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    General Re Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Re Financial Products Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Reinsurance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Star Indemnity Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Star National Insurance Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Reinsurance AG   
      
  Germany   
 
    General Reinsurance Africa Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    General Reinsurance Australia Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    General Reinsurance Life Australia Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Genesis Insurance Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Global Cranes Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Government Employees Insurance Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GUARD Insurance Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc.   
      
  Missouri   
 
    H. H. Brown Shoe Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Homemakers Plaza, Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    HomeServices of America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Horizon Wine   Spirits   Nashville, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    Horizon Wine   Spirits   Chattanooga, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    International Dairy Queen, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    IMC (Germany) Holdings GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Ingersoll Cutting Tool Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ingersoll Werkzeuge GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Iscar Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Johns Manville   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Johns Manville Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Johns Manville Slovakia, a.s.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Jordan s Furniture, Inc.   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Justin Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Justin Industries, Inc.   
      
  Texas   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2013    

Company Name    

Domicile or State of Incorporation     

Kahn Ventures, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Kern River Gas Transmission Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    KR Holding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    L.A. Darling Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Larson-Juhl US LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Lipotec, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Lubrizol Advanced Materials Europe BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Lubrizol Advanced Materials International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Lubrizol Corporation   
      
  Ohio   
 
    Lubrizol France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Lubrizol (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Lubrizol (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg SCS   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Lubrizol (Gibraltar) Minority Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Lubrizol Holdings France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Lubrizol International, Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Lubrizol Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Lubrizol Overseas Trading Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Engineered Industrial   Metal Components, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Retail   End User Technologies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Natural Resource   Transportation Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon/Keystone LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marquis Jet Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marquis Jet Partners, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McLane Company, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    McLane Foodservice, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Meadowbrook Meat Company, Inc.   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    The Medical Protective Company   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Medical Protective Corporation   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Meyn Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Meyn Food Processing Technology B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MHC Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Energy Company   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Funding, LLC   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Renewables, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MidAmerican Transmission, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MiTek Industries, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mount Vernon Fire Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Mouser Electronics, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    National Fire   Marine Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    National Indemnity Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    National Indemnity Company of the South   
      
  Florida   
 
    National Indemnity Company of Mid-America   
      
  Iowa   
 
    National Liability   Fire Insurance Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Nebraska Furniture Mart, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    NetJets Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nevada Power Company   
      
  Nevada   
 
    NFM of Kansas, Inc.   
      
  Kansas   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2013    

Company Name    

Domicile or State of Incorporation     

NNGC Acquisition, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Northern Electric plc.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Natural Gas Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid Holdings Company   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    NV Energy, Inc.   
      
  Nevada   
 
    NVE Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oak River Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Omaha World-Herald Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OTC Worldwide Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oriental Trading Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PacifiCorp   
      
  Oregon   
 
    Princeton Insurance Company   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    The Pampered Chef, Ltd.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    PPW Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Precision Steel Warehouse, Inc.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Railsplitter Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    R.C. Willey Home Furnishings   
      
  Utah   
 
    Redwood Fire and Casualty Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Richline Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RSCC Wire   Cable LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Russell Brands, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sager Electrical Supply Co. Inc.   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Schuller GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Scott Fetzer Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    See s Candies, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    See s Candy Shops, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Shaw Contract Flooring Services, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Shaw Industries Group, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Sierra Pacific Power Company   
      
  Nevada   
 
    S fft Shoe Company, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Star Furniture Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    Sterling Crane LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TaeguTec Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    TTI, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tungaloy Corporation   
      
  Japan   
 
    Unarco Industries LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Union Tank Car Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Union Underwear Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    United States Liability Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    U.S. Investment Corporation   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    U.S. Underwriters Insurance Company   
      
  North Dakota   
 
    Vanderbilt Mortgage and Finance, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    21st Mortgage Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vanity Fair Brands, LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Webb Wheel Products, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Lamont LLC   
      
  Delaware   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2013    

Company Name    

Domicile or State of Incorporation     

World Book/Scott Fetzer Company, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    XTRA Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Lease LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA LLC   
      
  Maine   
 
    Yorkshire Electricity Group plc.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Yorkshire Power Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

(1)  
  Each of the named subsidiaries is not necessarily a  significant subsidiary  as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, and Berkshire has several
additional subsidiaries not named above. The unnamed subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  at the end of the year covered by this report.     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 d656225dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 23    
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333- 186257 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-53046, 333-64284, 333-70609, 333-74312, 333-75612, 333-101662,
333-164961, 333-164959, 333-164958, 333-111614, and 333-179855 on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 28, 2014, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and the effectiveness
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2013.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP      Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 28, 2014   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 d656225dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1        FORM 10-K        Year ended December 31, 2013    
   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Warren E. Buffett, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2014    

/s/    W ARREN  E. B UFFETT    
 
   Chairman Principal Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 d656225dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2        FORM 10-K        Year ended December 31, 2013    
   Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Marc D. Hamburg, certify that:   

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 28, 2014    

/s/  M ARC  D. H AMBURG    
 
   Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 d656225dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1        FORM 10-K        Section 1350 Certifications    
   Year ended December 31, 2013       I, Warren E. Buffett, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       Dated: February 28, 2014    

/s/    W ARREN  E. B UFFETT    
 
   Warren E. Buffett    
 
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 d656225dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2        FORM 10-K        Section 1350 Certifications    
   Year ended December 31, 2013       I, Marc D. Hamburg, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       Dated: February 28, 2014    

/S/    M ARC  D. H AMBURG    
 
   Marc D. Hamburg    
 
   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-95>
 9
 d656225dex95.htm
 EX-95

EX-95 

EXHIBIT 95        MINE SAFETY VIOLATIONS AND OTHER LEGAL MATTER DISCLOSURES        PURSUANT TO
SECTION 1503(a) OF THE DODD-FRANK WALL STREET        REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT    
  PacifiCorp and its subsidiaries operate coal mines and coal processing facilities and Acme Brick and its affiliates operate clay, shale and limestone
excavation facilities (collectively, the  mining facilities ) that are regulated by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration ( MSHA ) under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the  Mine Safety
Act ). MSHA inspects mining facilities on a regular basis. The total number of reportable Mine Safety Act citations, orders, assessments and legal actions for the year ended December 31, 2013 are summarized in the table below and are
subject to contest and appeal. The severity and assessment of penalties may be reduced or, in some cases, dismissed through the contest and appeal process. Amounts are reported regardless of whether PacifiCorp or Acme has challenged or appealed the
matter. Coal, clay and other reserves that are not yet mined and mines that are closed or idled are not included in the information below as no reportable events occurred at those locations during the year ended December 31, 2013. PacifiCorp
and Acme have not received any notice of a pattern, or notice of the potential to have a pattern, of violations of mandatory health or safety standards that are of such nature as could have significantly and substantially contributed to the cause
and effect of coal or other mine health or safety hazards under Section 104(e) of the Mine Safety Act during the year ended December 31, 2013.       

Mine Safety Act   

Total Value of Proposed MSHA Assessments (in 
thousands)   

Total Number of Mining Related Fatalities   

Legal Actions   

Mining Facilities    
     
   Section 104 Significant and Substantial Citations (1)    

Section 104(b) Orders (2) 

Section 104(d) Citations/ Orders (3)    

Section 110(b)(2) Violations (4)

Section 107(a) Imminent Danger Orders (5)    

Pending as of Last Day of Period (6)    

Instituted During Period   

Resolved During Period   

Coal:   

Deer Creek   

18  

1  

$  
  97  

9  

14  

10  

Bridger (surface)   

1  

5  

1  

4  

5  

3  

Bridger (underground)   

19  

225  

11  

10  

25  

Cottonwood Preparatory Plant   

Wyodak Coal Crushing Facility   

Clay, shale and limestone:   

Minnesota   

Malvern   

Wheeler   

Eureka   

Fort Smith   

Kanopolis   

Oklahoma City   

Tulsa   

Denver   

Bennett   

Denton   

Elgin   

McQueeney   

Garrison   

Sealy   

Texas Clay   

1  

Leeds   

Montgomery   

Lueders   

Cordova   

(1)  
  Citations for alleged violations of mandatory health and safety standards that could significantly or substantially contribute to the cause and effect of a safety or
health hazard under Section 104 of the Mine Safety Act. One of the citations at Deer Creek was subsequently modified by MSHA to a non-significant and substantial citation. Four of the citations at Bridger (underground) were subsequently settled
with the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission and were reduced to non-significant and substantial citations.     

(2)  
  For alleged failure to totally abate the subject matter of a Mine Safety Act Section 104(a) citation within the period specified in the citation.

(3)  
  For alleged unwarrantable failure (i.e., aggravated conduct constituting more than ordinary negligence) to comply with a mandatory health or safety standard.

(4)  
  For alleged flagrant violations (i.e., reckless or repeated failure to make reasonable efforts to eliminate a known violation of a mandatory health or safety standard
that substantially and proximately caused, or reasonably could have been expected to cause, death or serious bodily injury).     

(5)  
  For the existence of any condition or practice in a coal or other mine which could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm before such condition
or practice can be abated.     

(6)  
  Amounts include 20 contests of proposed penalties under Subpart C and one contest of a citation under Subpart B and three labor-related complaints under
Subpart E of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission s procedural rules. The pending legal actions are not exclusive to citations, notices, orders and penalties assessed by MSHA during the reporting period.

</EX-95>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 brka-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 brka-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 brka-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 brka-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 brka-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 brka-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

