<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170227_10-K_edgar_data_1067983_0001193125-17-056969_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18805036</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>444937</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>906928</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4921777</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8383076</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3594455</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>115</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-17-056969.hdr.sgml : 20170227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170224210356
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-17-056969
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		152
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001067983
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				470813844
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14905
		FILM NUMBER:		17639411

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3555 FARNAM STREET
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4023461400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3555 FARNAM STREET
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NBH INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980810

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-17-056969.txt : 20170227

10-K
 1
 d303001d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM  10-K 
       ANNUAL REPORT        PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016      Commission file number  001-14905    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code
 (402) 346-1400         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:        

Title of each class    
      
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Class A common stock, $5.00 Par Value  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Class B common stock, $0.0033 Par Value  
      
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE    
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes       No         Indicate by check mark if the
Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes       No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes       No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulations  S-T  during the preceding 12 months.    Yes       No   
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K  is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K  or any amendment to this  Form 10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a  non-accelerated  filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule  12b-2  of the Exchange Act.:   

Large accelerated filer    
      
  Accelerated filer     
      
   Non-accelerated filer      
      
  Smaller reporting company      
    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule  12b-2  of the Exchange Act).    Yes       No         State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the Registrant as of June 30, 2016: $278,053,000,000*   
  Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant s classes of common stock:   
   
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    

Document    
      
     Incorporated In     

Proxy Statement for Registrant s Annual Meeting to be held May 6, 2017  
      
  Part III   

*  
  This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock on June 30, 2016. It does not include the value of Class A common stock (316,766
shares) and Class B common stock (70,408,573 shares) held by Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their immediate families, some of whom may not constitute  affiliates  for purpose of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934.             

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents    

Page No.   

Part I   

Item 1.    
      
    Business    

1  

Item 1A.    
      
    Risk Factors    

23  

Item 1B.    
      
    Unresolved Staff Comments    

26  

Item 2.    
      
    Description of Properties    

26  

Item 3.    
      
    Legal Proceedings    

30  

Item 4.    
      
    Mine Safety Disclosures    

30  

Part II   

Item 5.    
      
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities     

30  

Item 6.    
      
    Selected Financial Data    

31  

Item 7.    
      
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations     

32  

Item 7A.    
      
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

62  

Item 8.    
      
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

63  

Consolidated Balance Sheets  December 31, 2016 and December 31,
2015    

64  

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  Years Ended December 31, 2016, December 
31, 2015, and December 31, 2014    

66  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  Years Ended December 
31, 2016, December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014    

67  

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity  Years Ended December 
31, 2016, December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2014    

67  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Years Ended December 31, 2016, December 
31, 2015, and December 31, 2014    

68  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

69  

Item 9.    
      
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure     

108  

Item 9A.    
      
    Controls and Procedures    

108  

Item 9B.    
      
    Other Information    

108  

Part III   

Item 10.    
      
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     

109  

Item 11.    
      
    Executive Compensation     

109  

Item 12.    
      
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

109  

Item 13.    
      
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     

109  

Item 14.    
      
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services     

109  

Part IV   

Item 15.    
      
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

109  

Signatures    

110  

Exhibit Index    

115  

Table of Contents  

    Part I    

Item 1.   
   Business         Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire,   Company  or  Registrant ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both
a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of
activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska.      Berkshire s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or
human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire s corporate headquarters in the   day-to-day   business activities of the operating businesses.
Berkshire s corporate office senior management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses.
It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire s corporate governance practices, including, but not limited to, communicating the appropriate  tone at the top  messages to its employees and associates, monitoring
governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed.      Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employ approximately 367,700 people worldwide.   
   Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses       Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire s insurance businesses provide insurance and
reinsurance of property and casualty risks and also reinsure life, accident and health risks worldwide.      In direct insurance
activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from
an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other direct insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.   
  Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for
all or a portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by the direct insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess.
Under quota-share (proportional or  pro-rata)  reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums and losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or
 non-proportional)  reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the direct insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or  retention.  Both quota-share
and excess reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.      Insurance and reinsurance are generally
subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or
unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price,
performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.      Insurers based in the United States ( U.S. ) are
subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed to write policies on an admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder
interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company s authority
to do business as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with affiliates. Dividends, capital distributions and other transactions of extraordinary amounts are
subject to prior regulatory approval.      Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are
licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates.  Non-admitted  insurance markets
have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted insurers.  Non-admitted  insurance, often referred to as  excess and surplus  lines, is procured by either
state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party s direct procurement from  non-admitted  insurers.
 Non-admitted  insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates or reinsurance
contracts.   
         1   

Table of Contents  

   The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners ( NAIC ). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer s state of domicile has
ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with
regulatory oversight of solvency, risk management, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.      Berkshire s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the
aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire s U.S. based insurers was approximately $136 billion at December 31, 2016. Berkshire s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard   Poor s and A++ (superior) by
A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and claims paying ability.      The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002
established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program ( Program ) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. The Program currently extends to
December 31, 2020 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (the  2015 TRIA Reauthorization ). Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the
Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying  acts of terrorism.  In 2017, coverage under TRIA occurs when the industry insured loss for certified events occurring during a calendar year exceeds $140 million. Under the 2015
TRIA Reauthorization, the level of insured losses for certified events occurring during a calendar year required to trigger coverage under TRIA will increase annually by $20 million per year until the level of insured losses required to trigger
coverage reaches $200 million in 2020. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that
will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct
insurance (such as personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.   
  In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of
policyholder notification requirements) for 83% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group s deductible. Under the 2015 TRIA Reauthorization, the federal government s reimbursement obligation will be reduced annually by
1% per year until the level of reimbursement is reduced to 80% in 2020. Under the Program, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar
year. The aggregate deductible in 2017 for Berkshire s consolidated insurance and reinsurance businesses is expected to approximate $1.1 billion. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government
coverage for each TRIA year.      Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the laws and
regulations of each country in which an insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose comprehensive regulatory requirements on insurance businesses, such as in the United Kingdom, where insurers are subject to regulation by
the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority and in Germany where insurers are subject to regulation by the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). Other jurisdictions may impose fewer requirements. In certain
foreign countries, reinsurers are also required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of insurance liabilities and minimum
capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions.      Berkshire s insurance underwriting operations comprise the following  sub-groups:  (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries,
(3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for retroactive reinsurance and structured settlement and periodic payment annuity reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of  up-front  premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time (creating  float,  see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit
over time and to reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include
investment income earned from investments. Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries employ approximately 44,000 people. Additional information related to each of Berkshire s four underwriting groups follows.   
   GEICO  GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its insurance subsidiaries consist of: Government Employees
Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company, GEICO Secure Insurance Company, GEICO County Mutual Insurance Company and GEICO
Marine Insurance Company. These companies primarily offer private   
         2   

Table of Contents  

passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles,  all-terrain  vehicles,
recreational vehicles, boats and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, renters, boat, life and identity management insurance to individuals to provide insurance and financial services for buyers who
desire insurance coverages other than those offered by GEICO. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone.
     GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well
as with companies that use agency sales forces. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies may exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a period of time at
less than adequate rates. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy. GEICO competes for private passenger automobile insurance customers in the preferred, standard and  non-standard  risk markets with other
companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use agency sales forces, including State Farm, Allstate (including Esurance), Progressive and USAA. As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates,
voluntary   policies-in-force   have increased about 38% over the past five years. GEICO was the second largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms
of premium volume in 2016. According to most recently published A.M. Best data, the five largest automobile insurers had a combined market share in 2015 of approximately 54%, with GEICO s market share being approximately 11.4%. Since the
publication of that data, management believes that GEICO s current market share has grown to approximately 12%. Seasonal variations in GEICO s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other
factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.      Private passenger auto insurance
is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and
level of customer service provided. GEICO s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to
manage and settle claims. The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.       General Re  General Re Corporation ( General Re ) is the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation ( GRC ) and its subsidiaries and affiliates. GRC s
subsidiaries include General Reinsurance AG, ( GRAG ), a major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 45 cities and provide insurance and reinsurance coverages
throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other reinsurance intermediary and risk management services, underwriting management and investment management services. General Re is
one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium volume and shareholder capital.        Property/Casualty Insurance and Reinsurance
       General Re s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through GRC, which is domiciled
in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 13 branch
offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to clients without involving a broker or intermediary. In 2016, approximately 41% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance coverages and 41%
related to property reinsurance coverages.      General Re s property/casualty business in North America also includes
specialty insurers domiciled in Delaware. General Star is a specialty and surplus lines provider, underwriting a broad array of property, casualty and professional liability business through a select group of wholesale brokers, managing general
underwriters and program administrators. Genesis is an alternative risk insurance provider, offering solutions for the unique needs of public entity, commercial and captive customers. In 2016, these specialty insurers represented approximately 18%
of General Re s North American property/casualty net written premiums.      General Re s international property/casualty
reinsurance business operations are conducted through internationally-based subsidiaries on a direct basis (without intermediaries) via General Reinsurance AG as well as several other General Re subsidiaries and branches in 18 countries. Coverages
are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines, including property, aviation and casualty. In 2016, international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote reinsurance on a direct basis in the form of treaties, with
lesser amounts written on a facultative basis. International property/casualty business is also written through brokers, primarily via Faraday, a wholly-owned subsidiary. Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd s and provides
capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

     Life/Health Reinsurance     
  General Re s North American life/health business segments include life, disability, supplemental health, critical illness and
long-term care. The international life/health business is segmented by geographic region and transacts business worldwide. The principal business segments include life, disability, critical illness, health and long-term care. The life/health
business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2016, approximately 34% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 22% in Western Europe and the remaining 44% throughout the rest of the world.   
   Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group  Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) operations are based in
Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted through numerous subsidiaries, led by National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) and Columbia Insurance Company ( Columbia ). BHRG provides principally excess and quota-share
reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. BHRG also offers life reinsurance and annuity contracts through Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska ( BHLN ).   
  The type and volume of insurance and reinsurance business written by BHRG is dependent on current market conditions, including prevailing
premium rates and coverage terms. The level of BHRG s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets as well as from the
timing of particularly large reinsurance transactions.      BHRG underwrites traditional
 non-catastrophe  property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, catastrophe   excess-of-loss   treaty and facultative reinsurance,
and individual primary insurance policies on an   excess-of-loss   basis for primarily large or otherwise unusual discrete risks, referred to as  individual risk. 
BHRG periodically participates in underwriting placements with major brokers in the London Market through a wholly-owned subsidiary based in Great Britain. BHRG s business is written through intermediary brokers or directly with the insured or
reinsured.      Effective July 1, 2015, NICO entered into a  10-year,  20% quota-share
reinsurance agreement with Insurance Australia Group Limited ( IAG ). IAG is a large insurance group that currently writes multiple lines of business in Australia, New Zealand and other Asia Pacific countries.   
  BHRG periodically assumes risks under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection to ceding
companies against the adverse development of claims arising from events that have already occurred and that are insured under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is provided on an excess basis or for losses payable
immediately after the inception of the contract. Coverage provided is normally subject to large aggregate limits of indemnification. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under these contracts.   
  In BHRG s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of
  time-value-of-money   is an important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are often expected to
occur over long time periods. Losses payable under these policies are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds
( float ) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment results in future periods.      In 2014, NICO entered into a reinsurance contract with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company ( LMIC ). Under the agreement, NICO reinsures substantially all of LMIC s unpaid losses and allocated
loss adjustment expense liabilities related to (a) asbestos and environmental claims from policies incepting prior to 2005, and (b) workers  compensation claims occurrences arising prior to January 1, 2014, subject to an
aggregate retention of approximately $12.5 billion and subject to an aggregate limit of $6.5 billion.      In January
2017, NICO entered into a retroactive reinsurance agreement with various subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. (collectively,  AIG ). Under the agreement, NICO agreed to indemnify AIG for 80% of up to $25 billion, excess
of $25 billion retained by AIG, of losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses with respect to certain commercial insurance loss events occurring in years prior to 2016 for a premium of about $10 billion.   
  BHLN writes periodic payment annuity insurance policies and reinsures existing annuity-like obligations. Under these policies, it
receives upfront premiums and makes a stream of annuity payments in the future and payment streams often extend for decades. Similar to retroactive reinsurance contracts,  time-value-of  money concepts are an
important factor in establishing such premiums and underwriting losses are expected from the periodic accretion of time-value discounted liabilities. BHLN also writes reinsurance covering various forms of traditional life insurance. BHLN and its
affiliates have also periodically reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death, income, and similar benefit coverages on closed-blocks of variable annuity reinsurance contracts.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

    Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ( BH
Primary ) is a collection of independently managed primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the United States. These various operations are discussed below.
     NICO and certain affiliates ( NICO Primary ) underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial
enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.   
  The  Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies  ( BHHC ) is a group of insurers offering standalone workers 
compensation, commercial auto and commercial property coverages. BHHC has developed a national reach, with the ability to provide first-dollar and small to large deductible workers  compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those
where coverage is available only through state operated workers  compensation funds. The volume of workers  compensation business written in recent years has grown significantly. BHHC serves a diverse client base. BHHC s business is
generated primarily through independent agents and brokers.      MedPro Group ( MedPro ) is a national leader in
offering customized healthcare liability insurance, claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists and other healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and other healthcare facilities. MedPro has
provided insurance coverage to protect healthcare providers against losses since 1899. Its insurance policies are distributed primarily through a nationwide network of appointed agents and brokers. MedPro recently began offering coverage options to
healthcare providers in the United Kingdom, France and Singapore, as well as reinsurance options related to student health insurance programs.      U.S. Investment Corporation ( USIC ) and its subsidiaries are specialty insurers that underwrite commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus
basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USIC companies underwrite and market a wide variety of specialty insurance products.   
  Applied Underwriters, Inc. ( Applied ) is a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and  mid-sized  employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries principally markets a product that bundles workers  compensation and other employment related insurance coverages and business services into a seamless
package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to  mid-sized  employers. Applied also markets a workers  compensation product
with a profit sharing component targeted to  medium-sized  employers.      WestGUARD
Insurance Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies) provides commercial property and casualty insurance coverage to small and  mid-sized  businesses and is
based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha, based in Omaha, Nebraska, primarily writes Medicare Supplement insurance and credit insurance.      Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance ( BH Specialty ) was formed in April 2013. BH Specialty provides primary and excess commercial property, casualty, healthcare professional liability,
executive and professional lines, surety and travel insurance and other insurance. BH Specialty writes business on both an excess and surplus lines basis and an admitted basis in the U.S., and on a locally admitted basis outside the U.S. BH
Specialty is based in Boston, Massachusetts, with regional offices currently in several cities in the U. S. and international offices in Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, Germany, United Kingdom and Macau. BH Specialty currently
intends to further expand its operations. BH Specialty writes business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents.       Property and casualty loss liabilities       Berkshire s property and
casualty insurance companies establish liabilities for estimated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims or case
estimates, provisions for    incurred-but-not-reported    claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The estimates of
unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques. Reference is made to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8 and  Critical Accounting Policies,  included in Item 7 of this Report.   
   Investments  Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from
policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business ( float ). Float is the approximate amount of net policyholder funds generated through underwriting activities that is available for investment. The major components of float are
unpaid losses and   
         5   

Table of Contents  

loss adjustment expenses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less premium and reinsurance receivables, deferred policy acquisition
costs and deferred charges on reinsurance contracts. On a consolidated basis, float has grown from approximately $70 billion at the end of 2011 to approximately $91 billion at the end of 2016, primarily through internal growth. BHRG and
General Re accounted for approximately 69% of the consolidated float as of December 31, 2016. Over the past five years, Berkshire s cost of float was negative, as insurance businesses produced net underwriting gains.   
  Investments of insurance subsidiaries include a very large portfolio of publicly-traded equity securities, which are concentrated in
relatively few issuers, as well as fixed maturity securities and cash and short-term investments. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire s corporate headquarters. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates
established by management with respect to investment activities. However, investment portfolios have historically included a much greater proportion of equity investments than is customary in the insurance industry.   
   Railroad Business Burlington Northern Santa Fe       Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC ( BNSF ) is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and through BNSF Railway Company operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF had approximately
42,000 employees at the end of 2016.      In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern
regions and ports of the United States, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of freight revenues are covered by contractual agreements of varying
durations, while the balance is subject to common carrier published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national
and regional levels. BNSF s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF
efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline railroads. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For
the year ending December 31, 2016, approximately 35% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 25% from industrial products, 22% from agricultural products and 18% from coal.   
   Regulatory Matters       BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all of its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation
Board ( STB ) of the United States Department of Transportation ( DOT ), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ), as well as other federal and state
regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line
extensions and construction, and the merger with or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF s business.   
  The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations,
including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law. BNSF Railway is required to transport these commodities
to the extent of its common carrier obligation.       Environmental Matters    
  BNSF s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
regulation covering discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities
associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.      Many of BNSF s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges
onto the property. As a result, BNSF is now subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act ( CERCLA ), also known as   
         6   

Table of Contents  

the Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liabilities for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the
legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees,
former owners or lessees of properties, or other third parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to
properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF operations.       Competition    
  The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and
other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty
mileage continues to affect the market for  non-bulk,  time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In
order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads seek to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.      As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is
the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads,
BNSF s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2016 was approximately 50.1%.       Utilities and Energy
Businesses Berkshire Hathaway Energy       Berkshire currently owns approximately 90% of the outstanding common stock of
Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company (or  BHE ). BHE is a global energy company with subsidiaries that generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy. BHE s businesses are managed as separate operating units. BHE s domestic
regulated energy interests are comprised of four regulated utility companies serving approximately 4.7 million retail customers, two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 16,400 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of
approximately 7.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and ownership interests in electricity transmission businesses. BHE s Great Britain electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.9 million electricity  end-users  and its electricity transmission-only business in Alberta, Canada serves approximately 85% of Alberta, Canada s population. BHE s interests also include a diversified portfolio of independent
power projects, the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States, and one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States. BHE employs approximately 21,000 people in connection
with its various operations.       General Matters       PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service
territory s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the combined service territory, which helps mitigate
PacifiCorp s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electricity on a wholesale basis.      MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in
portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a variety of commercial and industrial customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation,
MEC sells electricity principally to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and natural gas on a wholesale basis.      NV Energy, Inc. ( NV Energy ), acquired by BHE on December 19, 2013, is an energy holding company headquartered in Nevada, primarily consisting of two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada
Power Company ( Nevada Power ) and Sierra Pacific Power Company ( Sierra Pacific ) (collectively, the  Nevada Utilities ). Nevada Power serves electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra Pacific serves electric and
natural gas customers in northern Nevada. The Nevada Utilities  combined service territory s economy includes gaming, mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental services. In addition to retail sales and natural gas
transportation, the Nevada Utilities sell electricity and natural gas on a wholesale basis.      As vertically integrated
utilities, BHE s domestic utilities own approximately 27,600 net megawatts of generation capacity in operation and under construction. There are seasonal variations in these businesses that are principally related to the use of
  
         7   

Table of Contents  

electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the winter
months.      The Great Britain utilities consist of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc,
which own a substantial electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to  end-users  in northeast England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily
charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of their distribution systems.      BHE acquired AltaLink L.P.
( AltaLink ) on December 1, 2014. AltaLink is a regulated electric transmission-only utility company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. AltaLink connects generation plants to major load centers, cities and large industrial plants
throughout its 87,000 square mile service territory. AltaLink receives all of its regulated transmission tariffs from the Alberta Electric System Operator ( AESO ) based on tariffs approved by the Alberta Utilities Commission
( AUC ).      The natural gas pipelines consist of Northern Natural Gas Company ( Northern Natural ) and Kern
River Gas Transmission Company ( Kern River ). Northern Natural, based in Nebraska, owns the largest interstate natural gas pipeline system in the United States, as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from west Texas to Michigan s
Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural s extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the
national grid system, has access to supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two
liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural s pipeline system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.   
  Kern River, based in Utah, owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that consists of approximately 1,700 miles and extends from
supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for electric and natural gas distribution utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies,
electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, and financial institutions.      BHE Renewables is based in
Iowa and owns interests in independent power projects having approximately 4,000 net megawatts of generation capacity that are in service or under construction in California, Illinois, Nebraska, Texas, New York, Arizona, Minnesota, Kansas, Hawaii
and the Philippines. These independent power projects sell power generated primarily from solar, wind, geothermal and hydro sources under long-term contracts.       Regulatory Matters       PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are subject to
comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ) is an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act,
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system
reliability; utility holding companies; accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to
$1.2 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect
to its 25% ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.      With certain limited exceptions, BHE s domestic utilities have
an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. In some jurisdictions, certain classes of customers may choose to purchase all or a portion of
their energy from alternative energy suppliers, and in some jurisdictions retail customers can generate all or a portion of their own energy. Historically, state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas rates on a   cost-of-service   basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the utility s reasonable costs of
providing services, including a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and equity. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are generally based on the cost of providing
traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services.      Northern Powergrid (Northeast)
and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) each charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The current eight-year
price control period runs from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

   AltaLink is regulated by the AUC, pursuant to the Electric Utilities Act (Alberta), the
Public Utilities Act (Alberta), the Alberta Utilities Commission Act (Alberta) and the Hydro and Electric Energy Act (Alberta). The AUC is an independent quasi-judicial agency with broad authority that may impact many of AltaLink s activities,
including its tariffs, rates, construction, operations and financing. Under the Electric Utilities Act, AltaLink prepares and files applications with the AUC for approval of tariffs to be paid by the AESO for the use of its transmission facilities,
and the terms and conditions governing the use of those facilities. The AESO is the independent system operator in Alberta, Canada that oversees Alberta s integrated electrical system ( AIES ) and wholesale electricity market. The
AESO is responsible for directing the safe, reliable and economic operation of the AIES, including long-term transmission system planning.      The natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the
FERC pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service and (b) the construction and operation of
interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such facilities. Interstate natural gas pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administrated by the Office of Pipeline Safety
within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an agency within the DOT. Federal pipeline safety regulations are issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in
the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.       Environmental Matters
      BHE and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and
water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to
impact current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators with the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance,
including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.      The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations
impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to be promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of
BHE s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities to comply with the requirements.   
  Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a
minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California, Iowa and Nevada have adopted renewable portfolio standards. In addition, the potential adoption of state or federal clean
energy standards, which include  low-carbon,   non-carbon  and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact electricity generators and natural gas providers.
     In December 2015, an international agreement was negotiated by 195 nations to create a universal framework for coordinated
action on climate change in what is referred to as the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement reaffirms the goal of limiting global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius, while urging efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius;
establishes commitments by all parties to make nationally determined contributions and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving the commitments; commits all countries to submit emissions inventories and report regularly on their emissions and
progress made in implementing and achieving their nationally determined commitments; and commits all countries to submit new commitments every five years, with the expectation that the commitments will get more aggressive. In the context of the
Paris Agreement, the United States agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 26% to 28% by 2025 from 2005 levels. The Paris Agreement formally entered into force November 4, 2016.   
  Supporting the United States  commitment under the Paris Agreement is the Clean Power Plan, finalized by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency ( EPA ) in August 2015. The Clean Power Plan established the Best System of Emission Reduction for fossil-fueled power plants to include: (a) heat rate improvements; (b) increased utilization of existing
combined-cycle natural  gas-fueled  generating facilities; and (c) increased deployment of new and incremental  non-carbon  generation placed in service after 2012.
Applying the Best System of Emission Reduction, the EPA established uniform subcategory specific emission performance rates of 771 pounds per megawatt hour for natural gas combined cycle units and 1,305 pounds per megawatt hour for coal-fueled
generating units and utilized these emission rates to establish the applicable   state-by-state   emission rates. The final Clean Power Plan compliance obligations begin in
2022, and extend through 2030. When fully   
         9   

Table of Contents  

implemented the rule would achieve an overall reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil-fueled electric generating units of 32% below 2005 levels. The final Clean Power Plan
provides states the option to implement rate-based plans that limit the pounds per megawatt hour their effected generating units can emit or mass-based plans that limit the total tons of emissions from affected sources as well as to allow their
affected units to engage in emission trading in either a mass- or rate-based plan. States were required under the final rule to submit initial plans to the EPA by September 6, 2016. However, on February 9, 2016, the United States Supreme
Court ordered that the EPA s emission guidelines for existing sources be stayed pending the disposition of the challenges to the rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals and any action on a writ of certiorari before the United States Supreme
Court. The case has been fully briefed and oral argument was held before the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals on September 27, 2016; the court has not yet issued its decision. The full impacts of the final rule or the federal plan on BHE and its
energy subsidiaries cannot be determined until the outcome of the pending litigation and subsequent appeals, the outcome of any issues should the case be remanded for further action by the EPA, the development and implementation of state plans, and
finalization of the federal plan.      BHE continues to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, as of
December 31, 2016, BHE has invested $19 billion in solar, wind, geothermal and biomass generation.        Non-Energy  Businesses       BHE also owns HomeServices of America, Inc.
( HomeServices ), the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real estate services,
including mortgage originations and mortgage banking, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related services. It operates under 38 brand names with over
29,000 agents in nearly 540 brokerage offices in 28 states.      In October 2012, HomeServices acquired a 66.7%
interest in one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States, which offers and sells independently owned and operated residential real estate brokerage franchises. HomeServices  franchise network
currently includes over 375 franchisees in over 1,500 brokerage offices in 47 states with over 46,000 agents under three brand names. In exchange for certain fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices,
Prudential or Real Living brand names and other related service marks, as well as providing orientation programs, training and consultation services, advertising programs and other services.   
  HomeServices  principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second
and third quarters of each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions.   
   Manufacturing Businesses    
  Berkshire s numerous and diverse manufacturing businesses are grouped into three categories: (1) industrial products,
(2) building products and (3) consumer products. Berkshire s industrial products businesses manufacture specialty chemicals, metal cutting tools, components for aerospace and power generation applications and a variety of other
products primarily for industrial use. The building products group produces flooring products, insulation, roofing and engineered products, building and engineered components, paint and coatings and bricks and masonry products that are primarily
used in building and construction applications. The consumer products group manufactures recreational vehicles, alkaline batteries, various apparel products, jewelry and custom picture framing products. Information concerning these activities
follows.       Industrial products        Lubrizol Corporation       The Lubrizol Corporation ( Lubrizol ) is a
specialty chemical company that produces and supplies technologies for the global transportation, industrial, oilfield and consumer markets. Lubrizol currently operates in two business sectors: (1) Lubrizol Additives, which includes engine
additives, driveline additives and industrial specialties products; and (2) Lubrizol Advanced Materials, which includes personal and home care, engineered polymers, performance coatings, and life science solutions.   
  Lubrizol s products are used in a broad range of applications including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty
driveline lubricants, fuel additives, refineries and oilfields, pipelines, metalworking fluids, compressor lubricants, greases for transportation and industrial applications,
  over-the-counter   pharmaceutical products, performance coatings, personal care products, sporting goods and plumbing and fire sprinkler systems. Lubrizol is an industry
leader in many of the markets in   
         10   

Table of Contents  

which it competes. Its principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton Chemical Corporation. The advanced materials industry is highly
fragmented with a variety of competitors in each product line. Principal oilfield chemicals competitors include Nalco Energy Services, Baker Hughes Inc., Schlumberger Ltd., and Halliburton Company.   
  From a base of approximately 3,240 patents, Lubrizol uses its technological leadership position in product development and formulation
expertise to improve the quality, value and performance of its products, as well as to help minimize the environmental impact of those products. Lubrizol uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing processes and
uses base oil in processing and blending additives. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single
source typically are subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability. Lubrizol operates facilities in 32 countries (including production facilities in 19 countries and laboratories in 15 countries).   
  Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through a direct sales organization and sales agents and distributors. Lubrizol s customers
principally consist of major global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products companies that are located in more than 120 countries. Some of its largest customers also may be suppliers. In 2016, no single customer accounted for
more than 10% of Lubrizol s consolidated revenues. Lubrizol continues to implement a multi-year phased investment plan to upgrade operations, ensure compliance with health, safety and environmental requirements and increase global manufacturing
capacity.      Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the environment and limit manufacturing
waste and emissions. The company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are designed to limit the risk of environmental damage and consequent financial liability. Nevertheless, the operation of manufacturing plants entails ongoing
environmental risks, and significant costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.       IMC International Metalworking
Companies       Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V.
( IMC ) in 2006. On April 29, 2013, Berkshire acquired the remaining 20% noncontrolling interests of IMC. Through its subsidiaries, IMC is one of the world s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision
carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC s principal brand names include  ISCAR      ,  TaeguTec      ,
 Ingersoll      ,  Tungaloy      ,  Unitac      ,  UOP      ,  It.te.di      ,  Tool Flo       and
 Outiltec      . IMC s manufacturing facilities are located mainly in Israel, United States, Germany,
Italy, France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.      IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools,
gripping tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and
earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufacturers to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored
to maximize productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers. IMC s staff of scientists and engineers continuously develop and innovate products that address its end user s needs and requirements.   
  IMC s global sales and marketing network has representatives in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed
with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC operates a
regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Korea, Japan and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC offices in order to provide
 on-time  customer support and inventory management.      IMC competes in the metal cutting
tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinational businesses
(such as Sandvik and Kennametal, Inc.) with a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks. Other manufacturing companies such as Kyocera, Mitsubishi, Sumitomo and Korloy also play a significant role in the cutting tool market.
  
         11   

Table of Contents  

    Precision Castparts    
  Berkshire acquired Precision Castparts Corp. ( PCC ) on January 29, 2016. PCC manufactures complex metal components and
products, provides high-quality investment castings, forgings, fasteners/fastener systems and aerostructures for critical aerospace and power and energy applications. PCC also provides seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine
( IGT ) and nuclear power plants; downhole casing, clad pipe, fittings and various mill forms in a variety of nickel and steel alloys for severe-service oil and gas environments; investment castings and forgings for general industrial,
armament, medical and other applications; nickel and titanium alloys in all standard mill forms from large ingots and billets to plate, foil, sheet, strip, tubing, bar, rod, extruded shapes,   rod-in-coil,   wire and welding consumables, as well as cobalt alloys, for the aerospace, chemical processing, oil and gas, pollution control and other industries; revert management solutions; fasteners for
automotive and general industrial markets; specialty alloys for the investment casting and forging industries; heat treating and destructive testing services for the investment cast products and forging industries; refiner plates, screen cylinders
and other products for the pulp and paper industry; grinder pumps and affiliated components for  low-pressure  sewer systems; critical auxiliary equipment and gas monitoring systems for the power generation
industry; and metalworking tools for the fastener market and other applications.      Investment casting technology involves a
multi-step process that uses ceramic molds in the manufacture of metal components with more complex shapes, closer tolerances and finer surface finishes than parts manufactured using other casting methods. PCC uses this process to manufacture
products for aircraft engines, IGT and other aeroderivative engines, airframes, medical implants, armament, unmanned aerial vehicles and other industrial applications. PCC also manufactures high temperature carbon and ceramic composite components,
including ceramic matrix composites, for use in next-generation aerospace engines.      PCC uses forging processes to manufacture
components for the aerospace and power generation markets, including seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine and nuclear power plants, and downhole casings and clad pipe for severe service oil and gas markets. PCC manufactures
high-performance, nickel-based alloys used to produce forged components for aerospace and  non-aerospace  applications in such markets as oil and gas, chemical processing and pollution control. The titanium
products are used to manufacture components for the commercial and military aerospace, power generation, energy, and industrial end markets.      PCC is also a leading developer and manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, fastener systems, aerostructures and precision components, primarily for critical aerospace applications. These products
are produced for the aerospace and power and energy markets, as well as for construction, automotive, heavy truck farm machinery, mining and construction equipment, shipbuilding, machine tools, medical equipment, appliances and recreation markets.
     The majority of sales to customers are individual purchase orders generated from long-term agreements. Most orders are
subject to termination by the customer upon payment of the cost of work in process, plus a related profit factor. PCC typically does not experience significant order cancellations, although periodically it receives requests for delays in delivery
schedules.      PCC is subject to substantial competition in all of its markets. Components and similar products may be produced
by competitors using either the same types of manufacturing processes or other forms of manufacturing. Although PCC believes its manufacturing processes, technology and experience provide advantages to its customers, such as high quality,
competitive prices and physical properties that often meet more stringent demands, alternative forms of manufacturing can be used to produce many of the same components and products. Despite intense competition, PCC is a leading supplier in most of
its principal markets. Several factors, including long-standing customer relationships, technical expertise,    state-of-the-art   
facilities and dedicated employees, aid PCC in maintaining competitive advantages.      A number of raw materials in its products,
including certain metals such as nickel, titanium, cobalt, tantalum and molybdenum, are found in only a few parts of the world. These metals are required for the alloys used in manufactured products. The availability and costs of these metals may be
influenced by private or governmental cartels, changes in world politics, labor relations between the metal producers and their work forces, and/or unstable governments in exporting nations and inflation.   
   Marmon Holdings       Berkshire currently owns 99.75% of Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ), a holding company comprised of four autonomous companies consisting of fifteen diverse business sectors and approximately 175
independent manufacturing and service businesses. Marmon operates approximately 370 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities, which are located   
         12   

Table of Contents  

primarily in the United States, as well as in 22 other countries worldwide. Marmon s transportation equipment manufacturing, repair and leasing businesses (UTLX Company) discussed in the
Finance and Financial Products businesses section of this Item. Marmon s other diversified manufacturing and service operations are referred to as  Marmon manufacturing  and discussed further below.   
  Marmon manufacturing includes Marmon Engineered Components Company ( Engineered Components ), Marmon Food, Beverage  
Water Technologies Company ( Food, Beverage   Water ), Marmon Retail   Highway Technologies Company ( Retail   Highway ) and the Engineered Wire   Cable operations within Marmon Energy Services
Company ( Energy Services ). The  Engineered Wire       Cable  sector supplies electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries.   
  Engineered Components includes:  Metals Distribution/Services and Wire Products  provides specialty metal pipe, tubing, beams
and related value-added services to markets such as construction, aerospace, industrial, and many others, and electrical building wire for residential, commercial and industrial buildings;  Tubing       Fitting  supplies
copper tube for the plumbing, HVAC and refrigeration markets, and aluminum tubing, brass fittings and valves for many commercial and industrial applications; and  Industrial Products  provides construction fasteners, fastener coatings,
custom-machined aluminum and brass forgings for construction, recreation and other industries, hand and arm protective wear, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety markets, and overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems.
     Food, Beverage   Water includes:  Foodservice Technologies  supplies commercial food equipment for
restaurants, fast food chains and hotels;  Beverage Technologies  produces beverage dispensing and cooling equipment for foodservice retailers as well as  on-shelf  management systems for single-serve
beverages and a wide range of  pre-tooled  stock solutions for  in-store  applications; and  Water Technologies  manufactures and markets residential water
softening, purification and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and  air-cooled  heat exchangers.      Retail   Highway includes:  Retail Store
Equipment  provides shelving systems, merchandising solutions, shopping carts, and other related services to retail stores in addition to material handling and security carts and automation equipment for several other industries;  Retail
Science  delivers retail market solutions to brands and retailers including merchandising displays,  in-store  digital merchandising and marketing programs;  Retail Products  supplies a variety
of products through the home center and other retail channels, including extension cords, work and garden gloves, and air compressors along with related tools and accessories;  Automotive Solutions  serves the light vehicle automotive
aftermarket industry primarily with clutches and engine mounts; and  Highway Technologies  serves the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with fifth wheel coupling solutions, trailers,
 wheel-end  products such as brake drums, undercarriage products such as severe duty axles and suspension systems, and truck modification services.   
   Other industrial products       CTB International Corp. ( CTB ), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of a wide range of agricultural systems and solutions for preserving
grain, producing poultry, pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry, fish, vegetables and other foods. CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.
     CTB competes with a variety of manufacturers and suppliers, many of which offer only a limited number of the products offered
by CTB and two of which offer products across many of CTB s product lines. Competition is based on the price, value, reputation, quality and design of the products offered and the customer service provided by distributors, dealers and
manufacturers of the products. CTB s leading brand names, distribution network, diversified product line, product support and high-quality products enable it to compete effectively. CTB manufactures its products primarily from galvanized steel,
steel wire, stainless steel and polymer materials and supplies of these materials have been sufficient in recent years.      The
Scott Fetzer companies are a diversified group of businesses that manufacture, distribute, service and finance a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The most significant of these businesses are Kirby home care
systems and related businesses.      On February 26, 2014, Berkshire acquired a global supplier of pipeline flow improver
products from Phillips 66. The business, headquartered in Houston, Texas, was initially named Lubrizol Specialty Products, Inc. and in 2016 was renamed LiquidPower Specialty Products Inc.   
  Berkshire s industrial products manufacturers employ approximately 70,000 persons.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

    Building Products    
   Shaw Industries       Shaw Industries Group, Inc. ( Shaw ), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and
manufactures over 3,800 styles of tufted carpet, laminate and wood flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides installation services and sells ceramic and
vinyl tile along with sheet vinyl. Shaw s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw s carpet and hard surface products are sold in a broad
range of patterns, colors and textures. Shaw operates Shaw Sports Turf and Southwest Greens International, LLC which provide synthetic sports turf, golf greens and landscape turf products. During 2014, Shaw exited the woven rug business. In 2016,
Shaw acquired USFloors, Inc. which is a leading innovator and marketer of wood-plastic composite flooring, as well as cork, bamboo and hardwood products.      Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 30,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw s
wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,600 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw s seven carpet, four hard surface and one sample full-service
distribution facilities and 25 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt and efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.   
  Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn
is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops, which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2016, Shaw processed approximately 99% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own
yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good but costs are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.
     The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet
in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 50% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The
principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.       Johns Manville
      Johns Manville ( JM ) is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building
insulation, mechanical insulation, industrial insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and
transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe insulation, filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiberglass is the basic material in a majority of JM s products, although JM also manufactures a
significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. Raw materials are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels. JM
regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 43 manufacturing facilities in North
America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at its technical center in Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.      The basic material in a significant number of JM s products is fiber glass, made from proprietary organic and acrylic-based formaldehyde-free agents to bind many of its glass fibers. JM s
products contain materials other than fiber glass, including various chemical and petro-chemical-based materials used in roofing and other specialized products. JM uses recycled material when available and suitable to satisfy the broader needs of
its customers. The raw materials used in these various products are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels.   
  JM s operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The most relevant of the federal laws include are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, which are administered by the EPA. In 2015, the EPA revised the hazardous air pollutant rules for the wool
fiber glass and mineral wool manufacturing industries. While the new rules implement new emission standards, they are not expected to require material expenditures by JM to meet the compliance dates in 2017.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

   JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors,
distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM operates in a highly competitive market, with competitors comprised primarily of several large global and national manufacturers and smaller regional manufacturers. JM holds leadership
positions in the key markets that it serves. JM s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. Sales of JM s products are moderately seasonal due to increases in
construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. JM is seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being determined based on the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products,
services and operations.       MiTek Industries       MiTek Industries, Inc. ( MiTek ), based in Chesterfield, Missouri, operates in three separate markets: residential, commercial and industrial. MiTek operates worldwide with sales in over 100
countries and with manufacturing facilities and/or sales/engineering offices located in 21 countries. MiTek has completed a number of  bolt-on  acquisitions in the past five (5) years, intended to diversify
product offerings and reducing the impact of the cyclical global housing markets.      In the residential
market MiTek is the world s leading supplier of engineered connector products, construction hardware, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss component market of the building components
industry. MiTek s primary customers are component manufacturers who manufacture prefabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market. MiTek also sells construction hardware to commercial distributors and   do-it-yourself   retail stores under the
USP      Structural Connectors name.      MiTek s commercial market business includes products and services sold to the commercial construction industry. Product offering include curtain wall systems (Benson Industries, Inc.), anchoring
systems for masonry and stone (Hohmann   Barnard, Inc.), light gauge steel framing products (Aegis Metal Framing Division of MiTek USA, Inc.), engineering services for a proprietary high-performance steel frame connection (SidePlate
Systems, Inc.) and a comprehensive range of round, rectangular, oval and spiral ductwork for the ventilation market (M M Manufacturing, Inc.).      MiTek s industrial market business includes: automated machinery for the battery manufacturing industry (TBS Engineering, Ltd.), highly customized air handling systems sold to commercial,
institutional and industrial markets (TMI Climate Solutions, Inc.), design and supply of Nuclear Safety Related HVAC systems and components (Ellis   Watts Global Industries, Inc.), energy recovery and dehumidification systems for commercial
applications (Heat-Pipe Technology, Inc.) and  pre-engineered  and  pre-fabricated  custom structural mezzanines and platforms for distribution and manufacturing facilities
(Cubic Designs, Inc.).      A significant raw material used is hot dipped galvanized sheet steel. While supplies are presently
adequate, variations in supply have historically occurred, producing significant variations in cost and availability.   
   Benjamin Moore       Benjamin Moore   Co. ( Benjamin Moore ), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available
principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-based and solvent-based general-purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the   consumers, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are
marketed under various registered brand names, including, but not limited to,  Aura       , Natura       , Regal Select      ,  Ultra
Spec      ,
 MoorGard       , ben       , Eco Spec       , Coronado       , Corotech       ,  Insl-x          and  Lenmar       .       Benjamin Moore
relies primarily on an independent dealer network for distribution of its products. Benjamin Moore s distribution network includes over 3,300 independent retailers currently representing over 5,000 storefronts in the United States and Canada.
The independent dealer channel offers a broad array of products including  Benjamin Moore       , Coronado       and   Insl-x        brands and other
competitor coatings, wall coverings, window treatments and sundries. In addition, Benjamin Moore operates an  on-line   pick up in store  program, which allows consumers to place orders via an  e-commerce  site or for national accounts and government agencies via its customer information center. These orders may be picked up at the customer s nearest dealer.   
  Benjamin Moore competes with numerous manufacturers, distributors and paint, coatings and related products retailers. Product quality,
product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage. Competitors include other paint and decorating stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware
chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets, such as Sherwin-Williams Company, PPG Industries, Inc., The Valspar Corporation, The Home Depot, Inc. and Lowe s Companies.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

   The most significant raw materials in Benjamin Moore products are titanium dioxide,
solvents, and epoxy and other resins. Historically, these materials have been generally available, with pricing and availability subject to fluctuation.       Acme Brick       Acme Brick Company ( Acme )
headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks ( Acme Brick      ), concrete
block ( Featherlite ) and cut limestone  (Texas Quarries).  In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries distribute a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry
products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central and South Eastern United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.   
  Acme and its affiliates operate 26 clay brick manufacturing facilities at 22 sites located in eight states, six concrete block facilities
in Texas and two stone fabrication facilities located in Texas and Alabama. In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries operate a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility, all located in Texas. The
demand for Acme s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the level of construction activity, which is cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials
used in many of its manufactured products. Acme s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate.      The brick industry is
subject to the EPA s Maximum Achievable Control Technology Rule (MACT Rule) finalized in October of 2015 with a deadline for compliance of December 31, 2018. Key elements of the MACT Rule include emission limits established certain
hazardous air pollutants and acidic gases. The MACT Rule also establishes work practices for  periodic  kilns, including using a designed firing time and temperature for each product, labeling maximum loads, keeping a log of each load, and
developing and implementing inspection and maintenance procedures. While many of Acme s facilities are in compliance, additional capital expenditures may be required to bring other facilities into compliance by the deadline.   
  Berkshire s building products manufacturers employ approximately 38,000 people.   
   Consumer Products        Apparel       Fruit of the Loom ( FOL ) is
headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky. FOL is primarily a manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear, casualwear, athletic apparel and hardgoods. Products, under the  Fruit of the Loom       and  JERZEES       labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise,  mid-tier  chains and wholesale markets. In the Vanity Fair Brands product line,  Vassarette         and  Curvation       are sold in the mass merchandise market, while  Vanity Fair       and  Lily of
France       products are sold to  mid-tier  chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic uniforms,
apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; collegiate licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the  Russell Athletic       and  Spalding       brands. Additionally,  Spalding       markets and sells balls in the mass merchandise market and dollar store channels. In 2016, approximately 41% of FOL s sales were to
 Wal-Mart.  In 2015, FOL exited an unprofitable intimate apparel business in Europe.   
  FOL generally performs its own knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging for apparel. For the North American market which
comprised about 85% of FOL s net sales in 2016, the majority of its cloth manufacturing was performed in Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the
Caribbean. For the European market, products are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. FOL s bras, athletic equipment, sporting goods and other athletic
apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.      U.S. grown cotton and polyester
fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL s apparel products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Additionally in 2015, FOL entered into an agreement with one key supplier to provide the
majority of FOL s yarn. Management currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials and yarn. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of
supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations,
economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL has secured contracts to purchase cotton, either directly or through the yarn suppliers, to meet the majority of its production plans for 2017. FOL s markets are highly competitive,
consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon product features, quality, customer service and price.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

   Garan designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for
children, including boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademark
 Garanimals       and customer private label brands. Garan also licenses its registered trademark
 Garanimals       to third parties for apparel and  non-apparel 
products. Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Substantially all of Garan s products are sold through its distribution centers in the United States with sales to  Wal-Mart  representing over 90% of its sales. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military
markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.      Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group
manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including  Justin, Tony Lama       ,
Nocona       , Chippewa       , B RN       , B       C       , Carolina       , S fft,  Double-H  Boots       ,
E rosoft       ,  and  Comfortiva       .  Brooks Sports
markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to specialty and national retailers and directly to consumers under the  Brooks       brand. Since
2011,  Brooks       has maintained a #1 market share position in the running specialty channel in the United States. A significant volume of the shoes sold by
Berkshire s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the
Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.       Other consumer products    
  Forest River, Inc. ( Forest River ) is a manufacturer of recreational vehicles ( RV ), utility cargo trailers, buses
and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana with products sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has numerous manufacturing facilities located in six states. Forest River is a leading
manufacturer of RV with brand names such as Berkshire, Cardinal, Cedar Creek, Cherokee, Coachman, Dynamax, Flagstaff, Forester, Georgetown, Palomino, Prime Time Manufacturing, Puma, Rockwood, Salem, Sandpiper, Sierra, Sunseeker, Surveyor, Viking RV
and Wildwood. Utility cargo trailers are sold under Cargo Mate, Continental, Rance and US Cargo brand names among others. Buses are sold under the Elkhart Coach, Glaval Bus, Starcraft Bus, and Startrans Bus brand names. Pontoon boats are sold under
the Berkshire, South Bay, and Trifecta brand names. The RV industry, Forest River s principal market, is very competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, design, quality and service.   
  Berkshire acquired the Duracell Company ( Duracell ), on February 26, 2016 from the Proctor   Gamble Company.
Duracell, headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a leading manufacturer of high performance alkaline batteries. Duracell manufactures batteries in the U.S., Europe and China and provides a network of worldwide sales and distribution centers. Costco
and Walmart are significant customers, each representing 10% of Duracell s annual revenue. There are several competitors in the battery manufacturing market with Duracell holding an approximately 37% market share of the global alkaline battery
market. Management believes there are sufficient sources of raw materials, which primarily include steel, zinc and manganese.      Albecca Inc. ( Albecca ), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, does business primarily under the  Larson-Juhl       name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard,
foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 13 countries outside of North America.   
  Richline Group, Inc. is the business platform providing financial, operations and marketing support to its four independent strategic
business units: Richline Jewelry, LeachGarner, Rio Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is uniquely a manufacturer and distributor of jewelry with precious metal and  non-precious  metal products to specific
target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping networks, mass merchandisers,  e-commerce  retailers and artisans plus worldwide manufacturers and wholesalers.   
  Berkshire s consumer products manufacturers employ approximately 53,000 persons.   
   Service and Retailing Businesses        Service Businesses       Berkshire s service businesses provide grocery and
foodservice distribution, professional aviation training programs, fractional aircraft ownership programs and distribution of electronic components. Other service businesses include a variety of media related businesses (newspaper, television and
information distribution), franchising and servicing a large system of quick service restaurants, as well as steel service and logistics businesses. Berkshire s service businesses employ approximately 22,000 people. Information concerning these
activities follows.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

    McLane Company    
  McLane Company, Inc. ( McLane ) provides wholesale distribution services in all 50 states to customers that include convenience
stores, discount retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane provides wholesale distribution services to  Wal-Mart  Stores, Inc.  ( Wal-Mart ),  which accounts for approximately 25% of McLane s revenues. McLane s other significant customers include  7-Eleven  and Yum! Brands, each of
which accounted for over 10% of McLane s revenues in 2016. A curtailment of purchasing by  Wal-Mart  or its other significant customers could have a material adverse impact on McLane s periodic
revenues and earnings. McLane s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and stringent expense controls. Operations are currently divided into three business units: grocery distribution, foodservice
distribution and beverage distribution.      McLane s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a dominant
market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to approximately 47,000 retail locations nationwide, including  Wal-Mart.  McLane s grocery distribution unit operates 23 facilities in 19 states.   
  McLane s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the quick service restaurant industry with
high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states. The foodservice distribution unit services approximately 22,000 chain restaurants nationwide. Additionally in 2012, McLane acquired Meadowbrook
Meat Company (MBM), a large customized foodservice distributor for national restaurant chains operating from 34 distribution facilities in 14 states. MBM services approximately 14,000 chain restaurants nationwide.   
  Through its subsidiaries, McLane also operates several wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. Operations are
conducted through 14 distribution centers in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Colorado. These beverage units, Empire Distributors, Horizon Wine   Spirits, Delta Wholesale Liquors, B T Distributing and Baroness Small Estates,
service approximately 26,000 retail locations in the Southeastern United States and Colorado.       FlightSafety International
      FlightSafety International Inc. ( FlightSafety ), headquartered at New York s LaGuardia Airport, is an
industry leader in professional aviation training services to individuals, businesses (including certain commercial aviation companies) and the U.S. and foreign governments. FlightSafety primarily provides high technology training to pilots,
aircraft maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and support a wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. FlightSafety operates a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at its learning centers
and training locations in the United States, Canada, China, France, Japan, Norway, Singapore, South Africa, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The vast majority of FlightSafety s instructors, training programs and flight simulators are
qualified by the United States Federal Aviation Administration and other aviation regulatory agencies around the world.   
  FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight simulators, visual systems, displays and other advanced
technology training devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations around the world. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri
and Texas. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and develop courseware using    state-of-the-art    technology
and invests in research and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.       NetJets    
  NetJets Inc. ( NetJets ) is the world s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft.
NetJets  executive offices and U.S. operations are located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NetJets  European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. The
fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments
seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or add capacity for peak periods, and for others that previously chartered aircraft.      NetJets  fractional aircraft ownership programs permit customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allow customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of
flight hours per annum. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and aviation solutions that provide aircraft management, ground support and flight operation services under a number of programs including NetJets Shares , NetJets
Leases  and the Marquis Jet Card     .   
         18   

Table of Contents  

   NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, the
National Institute of Civil Aviation of Portugal and the European Aviation Safety Agency. Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as
well as security issues and other matters. NetJets places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, low and predictable operating costs and increased liquidity.
      TTI, Inc.       TTI, Inc. ( TTI ), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical and discrete components used by customers in the
manufacturing and assembling of electronic products. TTI s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, original design manufacturers, military and commercial customers, as well as design and
system engineers. TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment, military/aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics. TTI s business model covers design through production
in the electronic component supply chain and consists of its core business, which supports high volume production business and its Mouser division, which supports a broader base of customers with lower volume purchases.   
  TTI s distribution agreements with the industry s leading suppliers allow it to uniquely leverage its product cost and to
expand its business by providing new lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and distribution centers from more than 100 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Israel. In 2012, TTI acquired Sager Electrical
Supply Company, Inc. ( Sager ), a leading distributor of electronic components headquartered in Middleborough, Massachusetts. Sager s business is focused on becoming a power specialist in the electronics distribution market. During
the past two years, PowerGate, LLC and Norvell Electronics, Inc. were acquired to strengthen Sager s value-added sales capabilities as well as market position as a power specialist in the North American market.   
   Other services       Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases to the media, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and in 45 languages.
Approximately 88% of Business Wire s revenues derive from its core news distribution business. The Buffalo News and BH Media Group, Inc. are publishers of 32 daily and 46 weekly newspapers in upstate New York, New Jersey, Nebraska, Iowa,
Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama and Florida. The newspapers operate primarily in small to  mid-sized  markets with strong local community connections. In June 2014,
Berkshire acquired WPLG, Inc. an ABC affiliate broadcast station in Miami, Florida.      International Dairy
Queen develops and services a worldwide system of over 6,800 stores operating primarily under the names  DQ Grill and Chill       , Dairy Queen         and  Orange Julius       that offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods and blended fruit drinks. Precision Steel operates a metal service center and a manufacturer of tool room
specialty and maintenance items both located in the Chicago metropolitan area. The service center buys stainless steel, low carbon sheet and strip steel, coated metals, spring steel and other metals, cuts these metals to order, and sells them to
customers involved in a wide variety of industries. The manufacturer of tool room specialty and maintenance items sells its product through industrial distributors.      In December 2014, Berkshire acquired Charter Brokerage ( Charter ), a leading  non-asset  based third party logistics provider to the petroleum and
chemical industries. Charter s service offerings include customs clearance, drawback of duties and taxes and fees, freight forwarding, marine logistics, trading and administration of foreign trade zone storage and distribution facilities.
Charter s business activities are primarily subject to U.S. Customs laws and regulations, which deal with the import and export of goods and the assessment of related tariffs and taxes. Charter s offices are located in Connecticut, Texas,
New York, Florida, Louisiana and Alberta, Canada.      Berkshire s service businesses employ approximately 45,500 employees.
      Retailing Businesses       Berkshire s retailing businesses principally include automotive, home furnishings and several other operations that sell various consumer products. Information regarding each of these operations
follows.       Berkshire Hathaway Automotive    
  In the first quarter of 2015, Berkshire acquired a group of affiliated companies referred to as the Berkshire
Hathaway Automotive Group, Inc. (BHA). BHA is the 4   th   
largest automotive retailer in the United States, currently operating 109 new vehicle franchises through 83 dealerships located primarily in major metropolitan markets in the United States. The dealerships
  
         19   

Table of Contents  

sell new and used vehicles, vehicle maintenance and repair services, extended service contracts, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products. BHA also arranges financing for its
customers  through third-party lenders. BHA operates 31 collision service centers directly connected to the dealerships  operations and owns and operates two auto auctions and a fluid maintenance products distribution company.   
  Dealership operations are highly concentrated in the Arizona and Texas markets, with approximately 70% of dealership-related revenues
derived from sales in these markets. BHA currently maintains franchise agreements with 27 different vehicle manufacturers, although it derives a significant portion of its revenue from the Toyota/Lexus, General Motors, Ford/Lincoln, Nissan/Infiniti
and Honda/Acura brands. Over 85% of BHA s revenues are from dealerships representing these manufacturers.      The retail
automotive industry is highly competitive. BHA faces competition from other large public and private dealership groups, as well as individual franchised dealerships and competition via the Internet. Given the pricing transparency available via the
Internet, and the fact that franchised dealers acquire vehicles from the manufacturers on the same terms irrespective of volume, the location and quality of the dealership facility, customer service and transaction speed are key differentiators in
attracting customers and driving revenue.      BHA s overall relationships with the automobile manufacturers are governed by
framework agreements. The framework agreements contain provisions relating to the management, operation, acquisition and the ownership structure of franchised automotive dealerships. Failure to meet the terms of these agreements could adversely
impact BHA s ability to make further acquisitions of such manufacturers  stores. Additionally, these agreements contain limitations on the number of dealerships from a specific manufacturer that may be acquired by BHA.   
  Individual dealerships operate under franchise agreements with the manufacturer, which grants the dealership entity a  non-exclusive  right to sell the manufacturer s brand of vehicles and offer related parts and service within a specified market area, as well as the right to the manufacturer s trademarks. The agreements
contain various operational requirements and restrictions related to the management and operation of the franchised dealership and provide for termination of the agreement by the manufacturer or  non-renewal 
for a variety of causes. The states generally have automotive dealership franchise laws that provide substantial protection to the franchisee, and it is very difficult for a manufacturer to terminate or not renew a franchise agreement outside of
bankruptcy or with  good cause  under the applicable state franchise law.      BHA owns approximately 6.0 million
square feet of buildings and approximately 945 acres of land that are utilized in the BHA dealership and related operations. BHA also develops, underwrites and administers the various vehicle protection plans, life and accident and health insurance
plans sold to consumers through the dealerships on products sold by BHA s dealerships as well as third party dealerships. BHA also develops proprietary training programs and materials, and provides ongoing monitoring and training of the
dealership s finance and insurance personnel.       Home furnishings retailing    
  The home furnishings businesses are Nebraska Furniture Mart ( NFM ), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings ( R.C. Willey ),
Star Furniture Company ( Star ) and Jordan s Furniture, Inc. ( Jordan s ). These businesses offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major
household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings. These businesses also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to
produce high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.      NFM operates its business from three very
large retail complexes with almost 2.8 million square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska, Kansas City, Kansas and The Colony, Texas. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of these
markets. The Colony, Texas store opened in 2015 and includes retail space of approximately 560,000 square feet. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa, which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space. R.C. Willey,
based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey currently operates 11 retail stores and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately
1.3 million square feet of retail space with six stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho, three stores in Nevada and one store in California.      Star s retail facilities include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in 11 locations in Texas with eight in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets. Jordan s
operates a furniture retail business from six locations with approximately 755,000 square feet of retail space in stores located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and a   
         20   

Table of Contents  

newly-opened store in New Haven, Connecticut. The retail stores are supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton, Massachusetts. Jordan s is the largest furniture
retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.   
   Other retailing       Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. ( Borsheims ) operates from a single store in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware,
gifts and collectibles. Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc. ( Helzberg ) is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates a chain of 223 retail jewelry stores in 36 states, which includes approximately 500,000 square feet of retail
space. Helzberg s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and all stores operate under the name  Helzberg Diamonds       or  Helzberg Diamonds
Outlet      . The Ben Bridge Corporation ( Ben Bridge Jeweler ), based in Seattle, Washington, operates
a chain of 90 upscale retail jewelry stores located in 11 states primarily in the Western United States and in British Columbia, Canada.  Thirty-six  of its retail locations are concept stores that sell only
PANDORA jewelry. Principal products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with over  one-third  of annual revenues generally earned in the fourth quarter.      See s Candies
( See s ) produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco and one smaller facility in Burlingame, California. See s
operates approximately 245 retail and quantity discount stores located mainly in California and other Western states. See s revenues are highly seasonal with nearly half of its annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.   
  The Pampered Chef, Ltd. ( Pampered Chef ) is a premier direct seller of distinctive high quality kitchenware products with
operations in the United States, Canada and Germany. Pampered Chef s product portfolio consists of approximately 430 Pampered Chef branded kitchenware items in categories ranging from stoneware and cutlery to grilling and entertaining, all of
which are curated to help the  at-home  cook save time. Pampered Chef s products are available online as well as through a sales force of independent cooking consultants.   
  Oriental Trading Company ( OTC ) is a leading multi-channel retailer and online destination for value-priced party supplies,
arts and crafts, toy novelties, school supplies, educational games and patient giveaways. OTC, headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million customers annually, including consumers, schools, churches,  non-profit  organizations, medical and dental offices and other businesses. OTC operates a number of websites and utilizes sophisticated online and print marketing efforts to drive sales and customer satisfaction.
     In April 2015, Berkshire acquired Detlev Louis Motorrad ( Louis ) which is headquartered in Hamburg, Germany.
Louis is a leading retailer of motorcycle apparel and equipment in Europe. Louis carries over 32,000 different products from more than 600 manufacturers, primarily covering the clothing, technical equipment and leisure markets. Louis has over 70
stores in Germany and Austria and also sells through catalogs and via the Internet throughout most of Europe. In 2016, Louis opened its first store in Switzerland.      Berkshire s retailing businesses employ approximately 30,000 people.       Finance and
Financial Products       Berkshire s finance and financial products activities include an integrated manufactured housing
and finance business, leasing of transportation equipment, and furniture leasing. Berkshire s finance and financial products businesses employ approximately 24,000 people in the aggregate. Information concerning these activities follows.
      Clayton Homes       Clayton Homes, Inc. ( Clayton ), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated home building company. Clayton operates 38 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton s
homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of 1,923 retailers, including 341 company-owned home centers and 100 subdivisions. Financing is offered through its finance subsidiaries to purchasers of Clayton s manufactured homes as well as
those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

   Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail and finance levels based on price, service,
delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are supported by Clayton s offering of various
financing and insurance programs.      Financing programs support company-owned home centers and select independent retailers.
Proprietary loan underwriting guidelines have been developed and include ability to repay calculations, including debt to income limits, consideration of residual income and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan
applicants. Approximately 72% of the originations are home-only loans and the remaining 28% have land as additional collateral. The average down payment is approximately 15%, which may be from cash, trade or land equity. Certain loan types require
an independent third-party valuation; additionally, if land is involved in the transaction it generally is independently appraised in order to establish the value of the land only or the home and the land as a package. Originations are all at fixed
rates and for fixed terms. Loans outstanding include  non-government  originations, bulk purchases of contracts and notes from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain
independent retailers and community operators and services housing contracts and notes that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies,
governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold housing contracts and notes. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, homebuyer protection plan policies and other programs.   
   Transportation Equipment Leasing       UTLX Company ( UTLX ), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, operates railcar, crane, intermodal tank container, manufacturing and service businesses under several brand names. Union Tank Car is a
leading designer, builder and full-service lessor of tank cars and other specialized railcars. Union Tank Car and its Canadian affiliate Procor own a fleet of over 134,000 railcars which they lease to chemical, petrochemical, energy and
agricultural/food customers across North America, supported by railcar repair facilities and mobile units. Union Tank Car also manufactures tank cars in two U.S. plants. Sterling Crane in Canada and the U.S. and Freo Group in Australia are major
mobile crane service providers with a total fleet of approximately 1,000 cranes primarily serving energy, mining and petrochemical markets. EXSIF Worldwide is a leading international lessor of intermodal tank containers with a fleet of approximately
47,000 units primarily serving chemical producers and logistics operators.      UTLX has a large number of customers diversified
both geographically and across industries. UTLX, while subject to cyclicality and significant competition in all of its markets, successfully competes by offering a broad range of high quality products and services targeted at its niche markets from
geographically strategic locations. Railcars and intermodal tank containers are usually leased for multiple-year terms and most of the leases are renewed upon expiration. As a result of selective ongoing capital investment and high maintenance
standards, utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) of UTLX s railcar, crane and intermodal tank container equipment are generally relatively high. While tank cars operate in a highly regulated environment in
North America, regulatory changes are not expected to materially impact UTLX s operational capability, competitive position, or financial strength.      XTRA Corporation ( XTRA ), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease      brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 78,000 units located at 51 facilities throughout the United States. The fleet includes   over-the-road   and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of   over-the-road   trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing
equipment. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation equipment, XTRA s utilization rates and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset
utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.       Other financial activities       CORT Business Services Corporation is the
leading national provider of rental relocation services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the    rent-to-rent    market of the
furniture rental industry. BH Finance LLC invests in fixed-income and equity instruments. Historically, BH Finance LLC also entered into derivative contracts involving foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. However, such derivative
contracts are currently comprised of equity index contracts that were written prior to 2009. BH Finance s activities are managed from Berkshire s corporate headquarters. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the
nature of these activities as well as the markets in general.       Additional information with respect to Berkshire s businesses
      The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the aforementioned business segments
are included in Note 23 to Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Berkshire s investments in fixed maturity securities, equity
securities and other investments is included in Notes 3, 4 and 5 to Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

   Since June 2013, Berkshire has maintained significant investments in H.J. Heinz Holding
Corporation (now The Kraft Heinz Company). Information concerning these investments is included in Note 6 to the Registrant s Consolidated Financial Statements. Kraft Heinz is one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, with
sales in approximately 190 countries and territories. Kraft Heinz manufactures and markets food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy products, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee and other grocery products under
a number of brands, including  Kraft ,  Heinz, ABC, Capri Sun ,  Classico ,   Jell-O  ,   Kool-Aid,  Lunchables, Maxwell House,  Ore-Ida,  Oscar Mayer, Philadelphia, Planters, Plasmon ,  Quero, Weight Watchers Smart Ones  and  Velveeta .      Berkshire maintains a website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its
subsidiaries  websites can be found. Berkshire s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form  10-K,  Form  10-Q,  Form
 8-K  and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC s website
( http://www.sec.gov ) and indirectly through Berkshire s website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam
Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549    (1-800-SEC-0330).          

Item  1A.   
   Risk Factors         Berkshire
and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as  we,   us,   our  or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in its business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are presently unknown or are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.       We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital allocation decisions.       Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO, age 86, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice
Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 93. If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. However, Berkshire s Board
of Directors has identified certain current Berkshire subsidiary managers who, in their judgment, are capable of succeeding Mr. Buffett. Berkshire s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed
currently. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its current view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that the Board s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running our
numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.       We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our various
businesses.       In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent management to direct   day-to-day   business activities of our operating subsidiaries. Our operating subsidiaries also need qualified and competent personnel in executing their business plans and
serving their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively impact one or more of our significant operating subsidiaries ability to meet
demands of customers to supply goods and services. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is important to all of our operations. Although we have adequate personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for
goods and services may exacerbate the risk of not having sufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a negative impact on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.   
   The past growth rate in Berkshire s book value per share is not an indication of future results.    
  In the years since present management acquired control of Berkshire, our book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate.
Because of the large size of our capital base (Berkshire shareholders  equity was approximately $283 billion as of December 31, 2016), our book value per share will very likely  not  increase in the future at a rate close to its
past rate.       Investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.    
  We concentrate a high percentage of the investments of our insurance subsidiaries in a relatively small number of equity securities and
diversify our investment portfolios far less than is conventional in the insurance industry. A significant decline in the fair values of our larger investments may produce a material decline in our consolidated shareholders  equity and our
consolidated book value per share. Under certain circumstances, as required under existing GAAP, significant declines in the   
         23   

Table of Contents  

fair values of these investments may require the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment losses. In addition, beginning in 2018 due to a pending change in GAAP, all changes in the fair
values of these investments (whether realized or unrealized) will be recognized as gains or losses in our consolidated statement of earnings. Accordingly, periodic changes in reported earnings will likely be subject to significant variability.
     Since a large percentage of our investments are held in our insurance subsidiaries, a decrease in the fair values of our
investments could produce a large decline in statutory surplus. Our large statutory surplus is a competitive advantage, and a material decline could have a materially adverse affect on our claims-paying ability ratings and our ability to write new
insurance business thus affecting our future underwriting profitability.       Competition and technology may erode our business franchises and
result in lower earnings.       Each of our operating businesses face intense competitive pressures within markets in which they
operate. While we manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode or prevent the
strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are
unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results in the future may decline.       Deterioration of general economic conditions may
significantly reduce our operating earnings and impair our ability to access capital markets at a reasonable cost.       Our
operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which they operate. To the extent that the economy deteriorates for a prolonged period of time, one or more of our significant
operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our utilities and energy businesses, our railroad business and our manufactured housing business regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures. These businesses depend on having
access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the capital markets is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be adversely affected.   
   Terrorist acts against the United States could hurt our operating businesses.    
  A successful (as defined by the aggressor) cyber, biological, nuclear or chemical attack against the United States could produce
significant losses to our worldwide operations. Our business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources or destruction of production facilities and information systems. This is a risk that we share with all
U.S. based businesses.       Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.    
  In recent years, partially in response to financial markets crises, global economic recessions, and social and environmental issues,
regulatory initiatives have accelerated in the United States and abroad. Such initiatives address for example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, environmental and global-warming matters and health care reform. These
initiatives impact not only our regulated insurance, energy and railroad transportation businesses, but also our manufacturing, services, retailing and financing businesses. Increased regulatory compliance costs could have a significant negative
impact on our operating businesses, as well as on the businesses in which we have a significant but not controlling economic interest. We cannot predict whether such initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.       Cyber security risks    
  We rely on information technology in virtually all aspects of our business. A significant disruption or failure of our information
technology systems could result in service interruptions, safety failures, security violations, regulatory compliance failures, an inability to protect information and assets against intruders, and other operational difficulties. Attacks perpetrated
against our information systems could result in loss of assets and critical information and exposes us to remediation costs and reputational damage.      Although we have taken steps intended to mitigate these risks, including business continuity planning, disaster recovery planning and business impact analysis, a significant disruption or cyber intrusion
could lead to misappropriation of assets or data corruption and could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, if we are   
         24   

Table of Contents  

unable to acquire or implement new technology, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage, which could also have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
     Cyber attacks could further adversely affect our ability to operate facilities, information technology and business systems,
or compromise confidential customer and employee information. Political, economic, social or financial market instability or damage to or interference with our operating assets, or our customers or suppliers may result in business interruptions,
lost revenue, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption, unstable markets, increased security and repair or other costs, any of which may materially adversely affect us in ways that cannot be predicted at this
time. Any of these risks could materially affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, sustained or significant cyber attacks, or war could also materially adversely affect
our ability to raise capital.       Derivative contracts may require significant future cash settlement payments and result in significant
losses.       We have assumed the risk of potentially significant losses under equity index put option contracts. Although we
received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these risks, there is no assurance that the premiums we received will exceed our aggregate settlement payments. Risks of losses under our equity index put option contracts are based on
declines in equity prices of stocks comprising certain major stock indexes. When these contracts expire beginning in 2018, we could be required to make significant payments if equity index prices are significantly below the strike prices specified
in the contracts.      Equity index put option contracts are recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the
periodic changes in fair values are reported in earnings. The valuations of these contracts and the impact on our periodic earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the inherent volatility of equity markets. Adverse changes in equity may
result in material losses in periodic earnings.        Risks unique to our regulated businesses     
   Our tolerance for risk in our insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.    
  When properly paid for the risk assumed, we have been and will continue to be willing to assume more risk from a single event than any
other insurer has knowingly assumed. Accordingly, we could incur a significant loss from a single event. We may also write coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. We attempt to take into account all possible correlations and avoid
writing groups of policies from which  pre-tax  losses might aggregate above $10 billion. Currently, we estimate that our aggregate exposure from a single event under outstanding policies is significantly
below $10 billion. However, despite our efforts, losses may aggregate in unanticipated ways. Our tolerance for significant insurance losses may result in lower reported earnings (or net losses) in a future period.   
   The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant
underwriting losses.       The principal cost associated with the property and casualty insurance business is claims. In writing
property and casualty insurance policies, we receive premiums today and promise to pay covered losses in the future. However, it will take decades before all claims that have occurred as of any given balance sheet date will be reported and settled.
Although we believe that liabilities for unpaid losses are adequate, we will not know whether these liabilities or the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product
lines, our objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Our estimated unpaid losses arising under contracts covering property and casualty insurance risks are large
($77 billion at December 31, 2016) so even small percentage increases to the aggregate liability estimate can result in materially lower future periodic reported earnings.       Changes in regulations and regulatory actions can adversely affect our operating results and our ability to allocate capital.    
  Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulations may relate to among other
things, the types of business that can be written, the rates that can be charged for coverage, the level of capital that must be maintained, and restrictions on the types and size of investments that can be made. Regulations may also restrict the
timing and amount of dividend payments to Berkshire by these businesses. Accordingly, changes in regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory actions imposing restrictions on our insurance companies may adversely impact our results of
operations and restrict our ability to allocate capital.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

   Our railroad business conducted through BNSF is also subject to a significant number of
governmental laws and regulations with respect to rates and practices, taxes, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material
adverse effect on BNSF s business. Governments may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on the business. Federal
legislation enacted in 2008 and amended in 2015 mandates the implementation of positive train control technology by December 31, 2018, on certain mainline track where intercity and commuter passenger railroads operate and where   toxic-by-inhalation   ( TIH ) hazardous materials are transported. Further, federal regulations promulgated in 2015 mandate the implementation of electronically
controlled pneumatic braking systems on certain crude oil trains by 2021 and all  high-hazard  flammable trains, as defined by the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and Federal Railroad
Administration, by 2023. These types of technology require further testing and deploying them across BNSF s railroad system and other railroads may pose significant operating and implementation risks and require significant capital
expenditures.      BNSF derives significant amounts of revenue from the transportation of energy-related commodities. Low natural
gas prices or oil prices could impact future energy-related commodities demand. To the extent that changes in government environmental policies limit or restrict the usage of coal as a source of fuel in generating electricity or alternate fuels,
such as natural gas, displace coal on a competitive basis, revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. As a common carrier, BNSF is also required to transport TIH chemicals and other hazardous materials. An accidental release of hazardous
materials could expose BNSF to significant claims, losses, penalties and environmental remediation obligations. Increased economic regulation of the rail industry could negatively impact BNSF s ability to determine prices for rail services and
to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.      Our utilities and energy businesses operated under BHE are highly regulated by numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. These laws
and regulations are complex, dynamic and subject to new interpretations or change. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses, have broad application and limit their management s ability to independently make
and implement decisions regarding numerous matters, including acquiring businesses; constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; operating and maintaining generating facilities and transmission and distribution system assets; complying
with pipeline safety and integrity and environmental requirements; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; transacting between our domestic utilities and our other subsidiaries and
affiliates; and paying dividends or similar distributions. Failure to comply with or reinterpretations of existing regulations and new legislation or regulations, such as those relating to air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, cyber
security, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters, or changes in the nature of the regulatory process may have a
significant adverse impact on our financial results.      Our railroad business requires significant ongoing capital investment to
improve and maintain its railroad network so that transportation services can be safely and reliably provided to customers on a timely basis. Our utilities and energy businesses also require significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and
maintain generation, transmission and distribution systems to meet their customers  needs and reliability criteria. Additionally, system assets may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial
investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers. Further, a significant portion of costs of capital improvements are funded through debt issued
by BNSF and BHE and their subsidiaries. Disruptions in debt capital markets that restrict access to funding when needed could adversely affect the results of operations, liquidity and capital resources of these businesses.   

Item  1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments      
  None.       

Item  2.   
   Description of Properties      
  The properties used by Berkshire s business segments are summarized in this section. Berkshire s railroad and utilities and
energy businesses, in particular, utilize considerable physical assets in their businesses.   
         26   

Table of Contents  

    Railroad Business Burlington Northern Santa Fe    
  Through BNSF Railway, BNSF operates one of the largest railroad networks in North America. BNSF Railway operates approximately 32,500
route miles of track (excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings) in 28 states, and also operates in three Canadian provinces. BNSF owns over 23,000 route miles, including easements, and operates over 9,000 route miles of trackage
rights that permit BNSF to operate its trains with its crews over other railroads  tracks. The total BNSF Railway system, including single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consists of over 50,000 operated miles of track, all
of which are owned by or held under easement by BNSF except for over 10,000 miles operated under trackage rights.      BNSF
operates various facilities and equipment to support its transportation system, including its infrastructure, locomotives and freight cars. It also owns or leases other equipment to support rail operations such as vehicles. Support facilities for
rail operations include yards and terminals throughout its rail network, system locomotive shops to perform locomotive servicing and maintenance, a centralized network operations center for train dispatching and network operations monitoring and
management in Fort Worth, Texas, regional dispatching centers, computers, telecommunications equipment, signal systems and other support systems. Transfer facilities are maintained for
  rail-to-rail   as well as intermodal transfer of containers, trailers and other freight traffic and include approximately 25 intermodal hubs located across the system.
BNSF owns or holds under  non-cancelable  leases exceeding one year approximately 8,000 locomotives and 72,000 freight cars, in addition to maintenance of way and other equipment.   
  In the ordinary course of business, BNSF makes significant capital investments to expand and improve its railroad network. BNSF incurs
significant costs in repairing and maintaining its properties. In 2016, BNSF recorded approximately $2 billion in repairs and maintenance expense.       Utilities and Energy Businesses Berkshire Hathaway Energy       BHE s
energy properties consist of the physical assets necessary to support its electricity and natural gas businesses. Properties of BHE s electricity businesses include electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, as well as coal
mining assets that support certain of BHE s electric generating facilities. Properties of BHE s natural gas businesses include natural gas distribution facilities, interstate pipelines, storage facilities, compressor stations and meter
stations. The transmission and distribution assets are primarily within each of BHE s utility service territories. In addition to these physical assets, BHE has
  rights-of-way,   mineral rights and water rights that enable BHE to utilize its facilities. Pursuant to separate financing agreements, a majority of these properties are
pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for the related subsidiary debt. BHE or its affiliates own or have interests in the following types of electric generation facilities at December 31, 2016:   

Energy Source    
     
     Entity    
     
     Location by Significance    
     
   Facility Net Capacity (MW)  (1)

Net Owned Capacity (MW)  
(1)    

Natural gas   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC, NV Energy and BHE Renewables  
     
  Nevada, Utah, Iowa, Illinois, Washington, Oregon, Texas, New York, and Arizona  

10,917  

10,508  

Coal   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC and NV Energy  
     
  Wyoming, Iowa, Utah, Arizona, Nevada, Colorado and Montana  

16,485  

9,412  

Wind   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC and BHE Renewables  
     
  Iowa, Wyoming, Nebraska, Washington, California, Texas, Oregon, Illinois and Kansas  

6,199  

6,190  

Solar   
     
  BHE Renewables and NV Energy  
     
  California, Arizona, Minnesota and Nevada  

1,464  

1,316  

Hydroelectric   
     
  PacifiCorp, MEC and BHE Renewables  
     
  Washington, Oregon, The Philippines, Idaho, California, Utah, Hawaii, Montana, Illinois and Wyoming  

1,297  

1,275  

Nuclear   
     
  MEC  
     
  Illinois  

1,824  

456  

Geothermal   
     
  PacifiCorp and BHE Renewables  
     
  California and Utah  

370  

370  

Total  

38,556  

29,527  

(1)   
   Facility Net Capacity (MW) represents the lesser of nominal ratings or any limitations under applicable interconnection, power purchase, or other agreements for
intermittent resources and the total net dependable capability available during summer conditions for all other units. An intermittent resource s nominal rating is the manufacturer s contractually specified capability (in MW) under
specified conditions. Net Owned Capacity indicates BHE s ownership of Facility Net Capacity.      
         27   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2016, BHE s subsidiaries also have electric generating
facilities that are under construction in Iowa, and Minnesota having total Facility Net Capacity and Net Owned Capacity of 2,072 MW.      PacifiCorp, MEC and NV Energy own electric transmission and distribution systems, including approximately 24,700 miles of transmission lines and approximately 1,700 substations, gas distribution
facilities, including approximately 26,600 miles of gas mains and service lines, and an estimated 44 million tons of recoverable coal reserves in mines owned or leased in Wyoming and Colorado.   
  Northern Powergrid (Northeast) s and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) s electricity distribution network includes approximately
18,000 miles of overhead lines, approximately 42,000 miles of underground cables and approximately 750 major substations. AltaLink s electricity transmission system includes approximately 8,200 miles of transmission lines and approximately 300
substations.      Northern Natural s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines,
including approximately 6,300 miles of mainline transmission pipelines and approximately 8,400 miles of branch and lateral pipelines. Northern Natural s  end-use  and distribution market area includes
points in Iowa, Nebraska, Minnesota, Wisconsin, South Dakota, Michigan and Illinois and its natural gas supply and delivery service area includes points in Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico. Storage services are provided through the operation
of one underground natural gas storage field in Iowa, two underground natural gas storage facilities in Kansas and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units, one in Iowa and one in Minnesota.   
  Kern River s system consists of approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipelines, including approximately 1,400 miles of mainline
section, including 100 miles of lateral pipelines, and approximately 300 miles of common facilities. Kern River owns the entire mainline section, which extends from the system s point of origination in Wyoming through the Central Rocky
Mountains area into California.       Other Segments       The physical properties used by Berkshire s other significant business segments are summarized below:       

Business    
      
     Country    
      
     Location    
      
     Type of Property/Facility    
     
   Number of Properties   

Owned/ Leased     

Insurance Group:   

GEICO   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Chevy Chase, MD and 6 other states  
      
  Offices  

12  

Owned   

Various locations in 38 states  
      
  Offices  

107  

Leased   

General Re   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Stamford, CT  
      
  Offices  

1  

Owned   

Various locations  
      
  Offices  

25  

Leased   

Non-U.S.    
      
  Cologne, Germany  
      
  Offices  

1  

Owned   

Various locations in 22 countries  
      
  Offices  

27  

Leased   

BHRG   
      
  U.S.  
      
  Stamford, CT and 4 other states  
      
  Offices  

6  

Leased   

Non-U.S.    
      
  Various locations in 5 countries  
      
  Offices  

9  

Leased   

BH Primary Group   
      
  U.S.  
      
    Omaha, NE, Fort Wayne, IN,  
  Princeton, NJ, Wilkes-Barre, PA and Oklahoma City, OK   
      
  Offices  

7  

Owned   

Various locations in 23 states  
      
  Offices  

74  

Leased   

Non-U.S    
      
  Locations in 7 countries  
      
  Offices  

9  

Leased   

Manufacturing   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Offices/Warehouses  
  Retail/Showroom     Retail/Showroom   

470     158  
  214     398  
  21  
  49   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     
         28   

Table of Contents  

Business    
      
     Country    
      
     Location    
      
     Type of Property/Facility    
     
   Number of Properties   

Owned/ Leased     

Non-U.S.    
      
    Various locations in over 60  
  countries   
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Offices/Warehouses  
  Retail/Showroom   

218     141  
  62     533  
  4   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Leased    

Service   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Training facilities/Hangars  
  Training facilities/Hangars  
  Offices/Distribution  
  Offices/Distribution     Production
facilities     Production facilities   

19     120  
  56     175  
  26  
  2   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased    

Non-U.S.    
      
  Various locations in 34 countries  
      
    Offices/Distribution/ Hangars/Training facilities     Offices/Distribution/ Hangars/Training facilities   

19     130   

Owned     Leased    

McLane Company   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Distribution centers/Offices  
  Distribution centers/Offices   

57     36   

Owned     Leased    

Retailing   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Offices/Warehouses/Plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Retail/Showroom  
  Retail/Showroom   

29     26  
  143  
  560   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased    

Non-U.S.    
      
    Germany     Locations in 6
countries   
      
    Office/Warehouse  
  Retail/Offices   

1     89   

Owned     Leased    

Finance   Financial  
  Products   
      
    U.S.   
      
  Various locations  
      
    Manufacturing plants  
  Manufacturing plants  
  Offices/Warehouses     Offices/Warehouses  
  Leasing/Showroom/Retail  
  Leasing/Showroom/Retail     Housing
communities   

65     8  
  17     62  
  229     249  
  101   

Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned     Leased     Owned    

Non-U.S.    
      
  Various locations in 12 countries  
      
  Manufacturing plants Manufacturing plants Offices/Warehouses Offices/Warehouses  

22     14  
  4  
  20   

Owned Leased Owned Leased   
 
         29   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings      
  Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions that routinely arise out of the normal course of business,
including legal actions seeking to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe
that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert
claims or seek to impose fines and penalties. We believe that any liability that may arise as a result of other pending legal actions will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.   

Item 4.   
   Mine Safety Disclosures      
  Information regarding the Company s mine safety violations and other legal matters disclosed in accordance with Section 1503
(a) of the Dodd-Frank Reform Act is included in Exhibit 95 to this Form  10-K.        Executive
Officers of the Registrant       Following is a list of the Registrant s named executive officers:   
   
    Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the  by-laws  of
the Registrant, until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until such executive officer sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes
disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger also serve as directors of the Registrant.       Part II    

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Security Holder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      
   Market Information    
  Berkshire s Class A and Class B common stock are listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, trading
symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated:   
   
     Shareholders       Berkshire had approximately 2,300 record holders of its Class A common stock and 20,200 record holders of its Class B common stock at February 15, 2017. Record owners included nominees
holding at least 430,000 shares of Class A common stock and 1,300,000,000 shares of Class B common stock on behalf of     beneficial-but-not-of-record     owners.       Dividends    
  Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.       Common Stock Repurchase Program       Berkshire s Board of Directors
( Berkshire s Board ) has approved a common stock repurchase program under which Berkshire may repurchase its Class A and Class B shares at prices no higher than a 20% premium over the book value of the shares. Berkshire may
repurchase shares in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. Berkshire s Board authorization does not specify a maximum number of shares to be repurchased. However, repurchases will not be made if they would reduce the
total value of Berkshire s consolidated cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills holdings below $20 billion. The repurchase program does not obligate Berkshire to repurchase any dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B
shares and there is no expiration date to the program. There were no share repurchases under the program in 2016.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data      
   Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years        (dollars in millions except  per-share  data)        

(2)  
    
     Represents net earnings per equivalent Class A common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to 1/1,500 of such amount.
      
         31   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations      
   Results of Operations    
  Net earnings attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that
follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and exclude earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (in millions).       
    Through our subsidiaries, we engage in a number of diverse business activities. We manage our operating
businesses on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by our corporate headquarters in
the   day-to-day   business activities of the operating businesses. Our senior corporate management team participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant
capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire s corporate governance practices, including,
but not limited to, communicating the appropriate  tone at the top  messages to employees and associates, monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related
issues as needed. The business segment data (Note 23 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements) should be read in conjunction with this discussion.      Our insurance businesses generated  after-tax  earnings from underwriting of $1.4 billion in 2016, an increase of $208 million from 2015, primarily due to
increased earnings from Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and General Re, partly offset by lower net underwriting gains from primary insurance. Our railroad business generated lower net earnings in 2016, primarily due to a 5.0% decline in unit
volume. Earnings of our utilities and energy businesses increased in 2016, attributable to increased  pre-tax  earnings and a lower effective income tax rate. The increase in
 after-tax  earnings in 2016 as compared to 2015 of our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses was primarily due to earnings from PCC, partly offset by comparatively lower overall earnings from the
other businesses within this group.      Our insurance businesses generated  after-tax 
earnings from underwriting of $1.2 billion in 2015, a decline of $530 million from 2014, which reflected rising claim costs at GEICO and lower earnings from our reinsurers, partially offset by increased earnings from our other primary
insurance operations. Our railroad business generated a 9.8% increase in  after-tax  earnings in 2015 compared to 2014, reflecting improved service levels and lower fuel costs.
 After-tax  earnings of our utilities and energy businesses in 2015 increased 13.3% over 2014, attributable to the acquisition of AltaLink in December 2014 and higher earnings from several of our other energy
businesses.  After-tax  earnings of our manufacturing, service and retailing businesses in 2015 increased 4.8% over 2014. The positive impacts of business acquisitions and higher earnings from our building
products businesses were partly offset by lower earnings from certain of our industrial products and service businesses.       After-tax  investment and derivative gains were approximately $6.5 billion in 2016, $6.7 billion in 2015 and $3.3 billion in 2014.  After-tax  investment gains in
2016 included approximately $2.7 billion from the disposition or conversion of our Wrigley, Kraft Heinz and Dow preferred stock investments and  non-cash  gains of approximately $1.9 billion related to the
exchange of P G common stock for 100% of the common stock of Duracell.  After-tax  investment and derivative gains in 2015 included  non-cash  holding gains of
approximately $4.4 billion in connection with our investment in Kraft Heinz common stock. In 2014,  after-tax  gains included approximately $2.0 billion related to the exchanges of Phillips 66 common
stock and Graham Holdings Company common stock for a specified subsidiary of each of those companies. Derivative contracts contributed  after-tax  gains of $488 million in 2016, $633 million in 2015
and $329 million in 2014. We believe that investment and derivative gains/losses are often meaningless in terms of understanding our reported results or evaluating our economic performance. Investment and derivative gains and losses have caused
and will likely continue to cause significant volatility in our periodic earnings.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Underwriting     
  We engage in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property/casualty, life and health risks. In primary insurance activities, we
assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, we assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or reinsurers have subjected
themselves to in their own insuring activities. Our insurance and reinsurance businesses are GEICO, General Re, Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) and Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group.   
  Our management views insurance businesses as possessing two distinct operations   underwriting and investing. Underwriting decisions
are the responsibility of the unit managers; investing decisions, with limited exceptions, are the responsibility of Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett. Accordingly, we evaluate performance of underwriting operations without any
allocation of investment income or investment gains/losses.      The timing and amount of catastrophe losses can produce
significant volatility in our periodic underwriting results, particularly with respect to BHRG and General Re. Our periodic underwriting results may be affected significantly by changes in estimates for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses,
including amounts established for occurrences in prior years. Actual claim settlements and revised loss estimates will develop over time, which will likely differ from the liabilities recorded as of  year-end 
2016 of approximately $76.9 billion. Accordingly, the unpaid loss estimates recorded as of December 31, 2016 will develop upward or downward in future periods, producing a corresponding decrease or increase to  pre-tax  earnings.      Our periodic underwriting results may also include significant foreign
currency transaction gains and losses arising from the changes in the valuation of  non-U.S. Dollar  denominated reinsurance liabilities of our U.S. based insurance subsidiaries as a result of foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations. Foreign currency exchange rates can be volatile and the resulting impact on our underwriting earnings can be relatively significant.      Underwriting results of our insurance businesses are summarized below (in millions).       
     GEICO       GEICO writes private passenger automobile insurance, offering coverages to insureds in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO s policies are marketed mainly by direct response methods in
which most customers apply for coverage directly to the company via the Internet or over the telephone. GEICO s underwriting results are summarized below (in millions).   

33   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)
           
   Premiums written in 2016 increased 12.5% to $26.3 billion and premiums earned
increased approximately $2.8 billion (12.2%) compared to 2015. These increases reflected voluntary auto   policy-in-force   growth of 7% and increased average premiums
per auto policy resulting from rate increases, changes in coverage and state and risk mix. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2016 increased 10.9% compared to the prior year. The growth in voluntary auto new business accelerated over the last half
of 2016 and, for the year, voluntary auto   policies-in-force   increased 974,000.      Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2016 increased $2.4 billion (12.9%) to $21.0 billion. In 2016, our loss ratio (the ratio of losses and loss adjustment expenses to earned
premiums) increased 0.5 percentage points, reflecting increased storm losses and claims severity, partly offset by the aforementioned premium rate increases. Claims frequencies (claim counts per exposure unit) in 2016 for property damage, collision,
bodily injury and personal injury protection (PIP) coverages were relatively unchanged from 2015. Average claims severities were higher in 2016 for bodily injury, physical damage and collision coverages (four to six percent range). In addition,
storm-related losses (primarily from hail and flooding) in 2016 were approximately $423 million compared to $162 million in 2015.      Underwriting expenses in 2016 were $4.0 billion, an increase of $366 million (10.1%) over 2015. Our expense ratio (underwriting expenses to premiums earned) in 2016 decreased 0.3 percentage
points compared to 2015. The largest components of underwriting expenses are employee-related expenses (salaries and benefits) and advertising costs. The increase in underwriting expenses reflected the increase in
  policies-in-force.        Premiums written and
earned in 2015 increased 11.5% and 10.8% over 2014. The increases in premiums reflected growth in voluntary auto   policies-in-force   (5.4%) and rate increases.
Voluntary auto new business sales in 2015 exceeded 2014 by about 1%. In 2015, our voluntary auto   policies-in-force   grew by 707,000 policies.   
  Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2015 increased $2.7 billion (17.1%) over 2014. Our loss ratio was 82.1% in 2015
compared to 77.7% in 2014. Claims frequencies in 2015 increased in all major coverages over 2014, including property damage and collision coverages (three to five percent range), bodily injury coverage (four to six percent range) and PIP (one to two
percent range). Average claims severities were also higher in 2015 for property damage and collision coverages (four to five percent range), bodily injury coverage (six to seven percent range) and PIP coverage (two to four percent range). We
attributed these increases to miles driven, repair costs (parts and labor) and medical costs, as well as to weather conditions.   
  Underwriting expenses in 2015 increased 5.8% to $3.6 billion. During 2015, advertising and employee-related costs grew at a slower
rate than premiums. As a result, our expense ratio in 2015 declined 0.7 percentage points compared to 2014.       General Re
      General Re conducts a reinsurance business offering property and casualty coverages to clients worldwide through General
Reinsurance Corporation, Germany-based General Reinsurance AG, Faraday Holdings in London and other wholly-owned affiliates. We write property and casualty reinsurance primarily on a direct basis, but is also written through brokers and
intermediaries. We write life and health reinsurance primarily on a direct basis through General Re Life Corporation and General Reinsurance AG. We strive to generate underwriting profits in essentially all of our product lines. Our management does
not evaluate underwriting performance based upon market share and our underwriters are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. General Re s underwriting results are summarized in the following table (in millions).   

34   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)
           
    Property/casualty    
  In 2016, property/casualty premiums written declined $165 million (6%) and premiums earned declined $236 million (8%) compared
to 2015, primarily due to lower volume in direct and broker market business, and to a lesser degree, unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate changes. Insurance industry capacity remains high and price competition in most property/casualty
reinsurance markets persists. We continue to decline business when we believe prices are inadequate. However, we remain prepared to write substantially more business when appropriate prices can be attained.   
  Our property/casualty business produced  pre-tax  underwriting gains of $117 million in 2016
and $150 million in 2015. Results included  pre-tax  underwriting gains from property business of $211 million in 2016, a decline of $78 million compared to 2015. The decline was primarily due to lower
gains from reductions of estimated losses on prior years  property business. There were no significant catastrophe or large property losses in each of the past three years.   
  Our casualty/workers  compensation business produced  pre-tax  underwriting losses of
$94 million in 2016 and $139 million in 2015. Underwriting results in each year included net losses on current year business and charges for recurring discount accretion on workers  compensation liabilities and deferred charge
amortization on retroactive reinsurance contracts, partially offset by gains from reductions of estimated losses on prior years  business. Discount accretion and deferred charge amortization produced
 pre-tax  underwriting losses of $89 million in 2016 and $94 million in 2015. Casualty losses tend to be long-tailed and the favorable loss experience is not a guarantee that the current ultimate
liability estimates will develop favorably in the future.      In 2015, property/casualty premiums written declined
$532 million (16%), while premiums earned decreased $298 million (10%) compared to 2014. Adjusting for changes in foreign currency exchange rates, premiums written and earned in 2015 declined 9% and 2% compared to 2014. Our premium volume
declined in both the direct and broker markets worldwide.      Our property/casualty business produced  pre-tax  underwriting gains of $150 million in 2015 and $204 million in 2014. In 2015, our property business generated  pre-tax  underwriting gains of $289 million
compared to $445 million in 2014. The comparative decrease in underwriting gains reflected an increase in the current accident year loss ratio, primarily attributable to a relative increase in reported losses. Our casualty/workers 
compensation business produced  pre-tax  underwriting losses of $139 million in 2015 and $241 million in 2014. Underwriting results in each year included net losses on current year business, partly
offset by gains from reductions of estimated losses on prior years  business. The reductions of prior years  losses were net of recurring charges for discount accretion on workers  compensation liabilities and deferred charge
amortization on retroactive reinsurance contracts of $94 million in 2015 and $97 million in 2014.       Life/health
      Life/health premiums earned in 2016 decreased 3% compared to 2015. Adjusting for changes in foreign currency exchange
rates, premiums earned in 2016 were relatively unchanged from 2015, as growth in the United Kingdom and Asia markets was offset by a decline in Canada. Our life/health business produced  pre-tax  underwriting
gains of $73 million in 2016 compared to losses of $18 million in 2015. In 2016, underwriting results reflected increased underwriting gains from our international life business, lower claim severity in North America, and lower losses from
changes in actuarial assumptions related to long-term care business.      Life/health premiums written and earned in 2015 were
relatively unchanged from 2014. However, adjusting for changes in foreign currency exchange rates, premiums earned in 2015 increased $266 million (8%) as compared to 2014. In 2015, life business increased across a number of  non-U.S.  markets, particularly in Canada and Asia. Our life/health business produced aggregate  pre-tax  underwriting losses in 2015 of $18 million compared to gains of
$73 million in 2014. Our North American long-term care business generated increased underwriting losses of $77 million in 2015 compared to 2014 due primarily to increased reserves from estimated premium deficiencies. We also experienced
higher frequency and severity of losses in North American individual life business in 2015, partially offset by increased underwriting gains from international life business.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)
           
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group    
  BHRG underwrites   excess-of-loss   reinsurance and
quota-share coverages on property and casualty risks for insurers and reinsurers worldwide, including property catastrophe insurance and reinsurance. BHRG also writes retroactive reinsurance on property/casualty exposures as well as life reinsurance
and periodic payment annuity business. A summary of BHRG s underwriting results follows (in millions).       
     Property/casualty       Premiums earned in 2016 increased $233 million (5.3%) reflecting an increase from the  10-year,  20% quota-share contract with Insurance Australia Group Ltd.
( IAG ), which became effective on July 1, 2015, partly offset by declines from property catastrophe and other quota-share business. The IAG quota-share contract represented 37% of our property/casualty earned premiums in 2016. Our
premium volume is generally constrained for most property/casualty reinsurance coverages as rates, in our view, are generally inadequate. Consistent with General Re, we have the capacity and desire to write more business when appropriate pricing can
be attained.      Our property/casualty business generated  pre-tax  underwriting gains of
$767 million in 2016 and $944 million in 2015. The decline in  pre-tax  underwriting gains in 2016 was primarily due to a comparative decline in gains from reductions of estimated prior years 
loss reserves. We experienced no significant catastrophe loss events during the last three years.      Premiums written and earned
in 2015 increased $605 million (15%) and $352 million (9%), respectively, compared to 2014. These increases were primarily attributable to the IAG quota-share contract, partially offset by lower property catastrophe, property
quota-share and London facilities volume. The property/casualty business generated  pre-tax  underwriting gains in 2015 of $944 million compared to $1.4 billion in 2014. Underwriting results in 2015
included comparatively lower gains from property catastrophe reinsurance and comparatively lower gains from reductions of estimated prior years  loss reserves.       Retroactive reinsurance       We periodically write retroactive reinsurance
contracts, which provide indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events. Retroactive reinsurance premiums earned in 2016 primarily derived from three new contracts, including $670 million from a contract
with Hartford Fire Insurance Company covering the adverse development of certain asbestos and pollution claims losses, subject to an aggregate limit of $1.5 billion. Premiums earned in 2014 included $3 billion from a contract with Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company ( LMIC ), which covers claim liabilities from specified asbestos and environmental exposures under policies incepting before 2005, and workers  compensation occurrences arising before 2014.   
   Pre-tax  underwriting results from certain retroactive reinsurance contracts include gains/losses
associated with the  re-measurement  of foreign currency denominated liabilities due to changes in exchange rates. Such gains were $392 million in 2016, $150 million in 2015 and $273 million in
2014 and primarily related to strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Great Britain Pound ( GBP ) and the Euro. Before such gains, retroactive reinsurance contracts produced  pre-tax  losses
of $441 million in 2016, $619 million in 2015 and $905 million in 2014, attributable to deferred charge amortization and changes in the timing and amount of ultimate losses.   
  The underwriting results of retroactive reinsurance include the periodic amortization of deferred charge assets established in connection
with these contracts. At the inception of a contract, we recognize deferred charge assets for the excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate losses payable over the premiums earned. We subsequently amortize the deferred charges over the estimated
claims payment period based on estimates of the timing and amount of future loss payments. Amortization charges and deferred charge adjustments resulting from changes to the estimated timing and amount of future loss payments are included in
earnings.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)
           Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)    
   Retroactive reinsurance (Continued)        
   Changes in estimated ultimate liabilities for contracts written in prior years were
relatively insignificant in 2016, whereas during each of the prior two years, we increased estimated ultimate liabilities approximately $550 million in 2015 and $825 million in 2014 for contracts written in prior years. We also reevaluated
the timing of future payments of remaining liabilities, which produced changes to unamortized deferred charges. These increases in estimated ultimate liabilities, net of related deferred charge adjustments, produced incremental  pre-tax  underwriting losses of approximately $90 million in 2015 and $450 million in 2014.      As discussed in Note 25 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, we entered into a retroactive reinsurance agreement with affiliates of American International Group, Inc. (collectively,
 AIG ) in January 2017. Our premiums with respect to this contract are about $10 billion and our net aggregate limit is $20 billion.      Gross unpaid losses assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts were approximately $24.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and $23.7 billion at December 31, 2015. Unamortized deferred
charges related to such reinsurance contracts were approximately $8.0 billion at December 31, 2016 and $7.6 billion at December 31, 2015. We currently estimate  pre-tax  losses in 2017 from
deferred charge amortization of approximately $950 million, including approximately $375 million related to the new AIG agreement.       Life and annuity       A summary BHRG s life and annuity underwriting
results follows (in millions).       
    Premiums earned in 2016 from periodic payment annuity contracts decreased $204 million (15.9%)
compared to 2015. The decrease reflected the effect of a large reinsurance contract in 2015 that generated premiums of $425 million, which more than offset a comparative increase in direct business. There were no periodic payment annuity
reinsurance contracts in 2016.      Generally, we receive premiums under periodic payment annuity contracts in full at inception
and we make annuity payments over time, often extending for decades. At inception, we discount annuity liabilities for time value and recognize no gains or losses in earnings.  Pre-tax  underwriting losses are
recognized over the annuity payment period from the recurring accretion of discounted annuity liabilities.      Periodic payment
annuity contracts generated  pre-tax  underwriting losses of $128 million in 2016, $202 million in 2015 and $197 million in 2014. Liabilities under certain contracts of a U.S. subsidiary are
denominated in foreign currencies, most significantly the GBP. Changes in the exchange rates produce changes in the values of related liabilities, which are reflected in underwriting results. Exchange rate changes resulted in  pre-tax  gains of $313 million in 2016, $103 million in 2015 and $102 million in 2014.      Before foreign currency exchange rate changes,  pre-tax  underwriting losses from annuity contracts were $441 million in 2016, $305 million in 2015 and
$299 million in 2014. The increase in underwriting losses in 2016 reflected increased liabilities from new business and the impact of lower interest rates, which increased expected future loss payments under reinsurance contracts. Discounted
annuity liabilities were approximately $9.8 billion at December 31, 2016 and $8.7 billion at December 31, 2015. The weighted average interest rate of these contracts was approximately 4.1% as of December 31, 2016.
  
         37   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)
           Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)    
   Life and annuity (Continued)        
   Life reinsurance premiums increased 1.4% in 2016 compared to 2015, which declined
4.8% compared to 2014. The life reinsurance business produced near break-even results in 2016 and a  pre-tax  loss of $45 million in 2015. Underwriting losses in 2015 included losses of
$53 million incurred in connection with certain terminated business.      Our variable annuity business primarily consists of
reinsurance contracts that provide guarantees on closed blocks of variable annuity business written by other insurers. Our pre-tax underwriting gains in each period of the past three years reflected changes in liabilities for guaranteed benefits,
which were affected by changes in securities markets and interest rates, as well as from the periodic amortization of expected profit margins included in our liability estimates.   
   Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group       The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ( BH Primary ) consists of a wide variety of independently managed insurance underwriting businesses that primarily provide a variety of commercial insurance
solutions, including healthcare malpractice, workers  compensation, automobile, general liability, property and various specialty coverages for small, medium and large clients. The largest of these insurers include the MedPro Group, National
Indemnity Company ( NICO Primary ), Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies ( BHHC ), Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance ( BH Specialty ) and Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies ( GUARD ). Other BH
Primary insurers include U.S. Liability Insurance Company, Applied Underwriters and Central States Indemnity Company.       
    BH Primary premiums written and earned in 2016 increased 13.2% and 16.0%, respectively, compared to 2015.
The increases were primarily attributable to volume increases from BH Specialty, MedPro Group, BHHC and GUARD. Premiums written and earned in 2015 increased 20.4% and 23.2%, respectively, over the prior year. The increases were primarily
attributable to volume increases from BH Specialty, NICO Primary, BHHC and GUARD. BH Primary s combined loss ratios were 61.8% in 2016, 56.9% in 2015 and 59.6% in 2014. The comparative increase in the loss ratio in 2016 reflected comparative
declines in favorable loss development of prior years  loss events and higher loss ratios on current year business. While our claims development has been favorable in recent years, our primary insurers write considerable amounts of healthcare
malpractice, general liability and workers  compensation business, which can have extended claim-tails. It should not be assumed that the current claim experience or underwriting results will continue into the future.   
    Insurance Investment Income        A summary of net investment income generated from investments held by our insurance operations follows (in millions).       
 
         38   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Insurance Investment Income    (Continued)
           
    Pre-tax  investment income declined
$68 million (1.5%) in 2016 compared to 2015, reflecting lower dividend income attributable to portfolio changes, partly offset by an increase in interest income. We continue to hold significant cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills
earning very low yields, although such yields in 2016 were higher than in 2015. We believe that maintaining ample liquidity is paramount and we insist on safety over yield with respect to such balances. In December 2016, Dow exercised its option to
convert our $3 billion Dow preferred stock investment into common stock. Prior to its conversion, we received dividends of $255 million per annum.      Interest earned declined $121 million (12%) in 2015 versus 2014. The reduction reflected the maturities and dispositions of fixed maturity securities with higher interest rates. Dividend income
increased $314 million (9%) in 2015 versus 2014. Dividend income in 2015 included income from our investment in Restaurant Brands International, Inc. 9% Preferred Stock ($3 billion stated value), which was acquired in December 2014.
     Invested assets of our insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital, including reinvested earnings, and from net
liabilities under insurance contracts or  float.  The major components of float are unpaid losses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other liabilities to policyholders less premium and reinsurance
receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs. Float approximated $91 billion at December 31, 2016, $88 billion at December 31, 2015 and $84 billion at
December 31, 2014. The cost of float was negative over the last three years as our insurance business generated  pre-tax  underwriting gains in each year.   
  A summary of cash and investments held in our insurance businesses as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 follows (in millions).
      
    Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2016 were as follows (in millions).   
   
    U.S. government obligations are rated AA+ or Aaa by the major rating agencies and approximately 87% of
all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed securities were rated AA or higher.  Non-investment  grade securities represent securities rated below  BBB-  or Baa3. Foreign government securities include obligations issued or unconditionally guaranteed by national or provincial government entities.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      
     
     Railroad ( Burlington Northern Santa Fe )     
  Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC ( BNSF ) operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF operates
approximately 32,500 route miles of track in 28 states and also operates in three Canadian provinces. BNSF s major business groups are classified by type of product shipped and include consumer products, coal, industrial products and
agricultural products. A summary of BNSF s earnings follows (in millions).       
    Consolidated revenues were approximately $19.8 billion in 2016, a decrease of $2.1 billion
(9.7%) compared to 2015.  Pre-tax  earnings were $5.7 billion in 2016, a decrease of $1.1 billion (16.0%) compared to 2015. Our total volume was approximately 9.8 million cars/units in 2016
compared to approximately 10.3 million in 2015. In 2016, we experienced declining demand, especially in our coal and crude oil categories. Coal had the largest decline, driven by structural changes in that business as well as competition from
low natural gas prices. While natural gas prices and the amount of electricity burn will affect the demand for coal in 2017, our long-term demand outlook for U.S. and global coal consumption is lower.   
  Freight revenues reflected comparative declines in 2016 in average revenue per car/unit (5.2%) and volumes (5.0%). The decrease in
average revenue per car/unit was primarily attributable to lower fuel surcharge revenue driven by lower fuel prices and to business mix changes. The fuel price impact on fuel surcharges generally lags its impact on fuel costs.   
  Freight revenues from consumer products were $6.5 billion in 2016, a decline of 0.9% from 2015. The revenue decline reflected lower
average revenue per car/unit, partially offset by volume increases of 1%. Consumer products volumes increased primarily due to higher domestic intermodal volumes and the addition of a new automotive customer. Lower international intermodal volumes
attributable to soft economic activity and excess retail inventories partially offset these increases.      Freight revenues from
industrial products were $4.8 billion in 2016, a decline of 14.2% compared with 2015. The decrease reflects lower volumes, primarily for petroleum products, reflecting pipeline displacement of U.S. crude rail traffic and lower U.S. oil
production. In addition, there was lower demand for steel and taconite, partially offset by increased plastics products volume. We expect low oil production and pipeline displacement will continue to negatively impact the demand for crude oil
shipments in 2017.      Freight revenues from agricultural products remained relatively flat at $4.2 billion. Agricultural
product volume increased by 6.3% in 2016, primarily due to higher corn, soybean and wheat exports, offsetting a decrease in average revenue per car/unit.      Freight revenues from coal decreased 26.9% to $3.4 billion in 2016 compared to 2015, reflecting a 21.1% decline in volumes and lower average rate per car/unit. Demand for coal has declined due to
reduced energy consumption, coal unit retirements, high coal stockpiles and low natural gas prices.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Railroad ( Burlington Northern Santa Fe )    (Continued)
           
   Operating expenses were $13.1 billion in 2016, a decrease of $1.1 billion
(7.9%) compared to 2015, and our ratio of operating expenses to revenues increased 1.4 percentage points to 66.3%. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased $274 million (5.4%) compared to 2015. The decline was primarily due to lower
employment levels resulting from lower freight volumes and productivity improvements, partially offset by inflation. Fuel expenses declined $722 million (27.2%) compared to 2015, due to lower average fuel prices and lower volumes.
Purchased services declined $128 million (5.0%) due to lower volumes and cost reductions. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $127 million (6.3%) compared to 2015 due to increased assets in service reflecting our ongoing
capital additions and improvement programs. Equipment rents, materials and other expense declined $123 million (6.1%) compared to 2015, primarily due to lower freight volumes and productivity improvements.   
  Interest expense was $992 million in 2016, an increase of $64 million (6.9%) compared to 2015. Interest expense in 2015 was
$928 million, an increase of $95 million (11%) compared to 2014. BNSF funds its capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and new debt issuances. The comparative increases in each period resulted from higher average
outstanding debt.      Consolidated revenues were approximately $22.0 billion in 2015, a decrease of $1.3 billion (5%)
compared to 2014.  Pre-tax  earnings were $6.8 billion in 2015, an increase of $606 million (10%) over 2014. Results in 2015 benefitted from significantly improved operating performance compared
to substandard service during 2014. The operational improvements in 2015 reflected the capacity added in 2014 and 2015 through capital investments for line expansion, system improvement projects, other operational initiatives and more favorable
winter weather conditions. Our total volume was approximately 10.3 million cars/units in 2015. During the second half of 2015 and particularly in the fourth quarter, we experienced declining demand, especially in coal and certain industrial
products categories.      The decrease in consolidated revenues in 2015 reflected a 6% decline in average revenue per car/unit and
a 0.1% decrease in volume. The decrease in average revenue per car/unit was attributable to a 55% decline in fuel surcharges ($1.6 billion) versus 2014, primarily due to lower fuel prices. The impact of lower fuel surcharge revenues affected
revenues of all product lines.      Freight revenues from industrial products decreased 11% in 2015 compared to 2014 to
$5.6 billion. The decrease reflected lower volumes for petroleum products, frac sand and steel products and lower average revenue per car/unit. Freight revenues from agricultural products increased 2% in 2015 to approximately $4.2 billion
as compared to revenues in 2014. The increase in 2015 was attributable to higher domestic grain shipments and milo exports.   
  Freight revenues from coal decreased 7% to $4.6 billion in 2015 compared to 2014. The revenue decline was primarily due to lower
average rates per car. Coal volume increased 1% primarily due to higher demand in the early part of the year as customers restocked coal inventories.      Freight revenues from consumer products were $6.6 billion in 2015, a decline of 6% from 2014. The revenue decline reflected lower average rates per car/unit, partially offset by volume increases of
1%. In the first quarter of 2015, we experienced a decline in international intermodal volume attributable to diversions of freight from U.S. West Coast ports to other import gateways as a result of the port productivity slow-down from port labor
disruptions. Over the remainder of 2015, we experienced increased volume, as port productivity improvements allowed the backlog to clear, as well as from higher demand.      Operating expenses were $14.3 billion in 2015, a decrease of $2 billion (12%) compared to 2014. The ratio of operating expenses to revenues declined 4.9 percentage points to 64.9% as
compared to 2014. Compensation and benefits expenses were relatively flat versus 2014. In response to weakening customer demand in the latter half of 2015, employment levels were reduced. Fuel expenses declined $1.8 billion (41%) compared
to 2014, reflecting significantly lower average fuel prices, improved efficiency and lower gross ton miles volume. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $122 million (6%) compared to 2014 as a result of lower capitalized software
amortization expenses, partially offset by increased depreciation expense attributable to increased levels of railroad assets in service.        Utilities and Energy ( Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company )     
  We hold a 90% ownership interest in Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company ( BHE ), which operates a global energy business.
BHE s domestic regulated utility interests are comprised of PacifiCorp, MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ) and NV Energy. In Great Britain, BHE subsidiaries operate two regulated electricity distribution businesses referred to as
Northern Powergrid. BHE also owns two domestic regulated interstate natural gas pipeline companies. Other energy businesses include AltaLink, L.P. ( AltaLink ), a regulated electricity transmission-only business in Alberta, Canada and a
diversified portfolio of independent power projects. In addition, BHE also operates the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm and one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States.
  
         41   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Utilities and Energy ( Berkshire Hathaway Energy
Company )    (Continued)            
   The rates our regulated businesses charge customers for energy and services are based,
in large part, on the costs of business operations, including a return on capital, and are subject to regulatory approval. To the extent these operations are not allowed to include such costs in the approved rates, operating results will be
adversely affected. Revenues and earnings of BHE are summarized below (in millions).       
     PacifiCorp       PacifiCorp operates a regulated electric utility in portions of several Western states, including Utah, Oregon and Wyoming. PacifiCorp s revenues were $5.25 billion in 2016, slightly lower than
2015. Revenues reflected increased retail revenues and lower wholesale and other operating revenues. The increase in retail revenues was primarily due to higher retail rates as volumes were relatively unchanged. The declines in wholesale revenues
were attributable to lower volumes and average prices. EBIT in 2016 increased $79 million (7.7%) from 2015, primarily due to increased gross margins (operating revenues less cost of sales), reflecting lower fuel prices and changes in fuel mix.
     Revenues declined $36 million (1%) in 2015 compared to 2014. Wholesale and other revenues declined $129 million,
principally due to lower wholesale prices and volumes and lower renewable energy credit revenue, while retail revenues increased compared to 2014, reflecting higher average rates partially offset by slightly lower volumes. EBIT increased
$16 million (2%) in 2015 compared to 2014. Gross margins increased $109 million versus 2014, as energy costs declined more than revenues. The increase in gross margins substantially offset an increase in depreciation and amortization
expense ($35 million) due to increased   plant-in-service,   lower allowances for equity funds used during construction ($18 million) and the impact of the recognition in
2014 of expected insurance recoveries on fire losses.       MidAmerican Energy Company    
  MEC operates a regulated electric and natural gas utility primarily in Iowa and Illinois. Revenues increased $114 million (4.5%) in
2016 compared to 2015. Revenues in 2016 included increased electric revenues ($148 million), which were somewhat offset by lower natural gas revenues ($24 million). The increase in electric revenues resulted primarily from a 3.8% increase in
customer volumes and higher rates. Wholesale and other revenues increased primarily due to increased average wholesale prices and higher transmission revenue. The decline in natural gas revenues was primarily due to lower average  per-unit  costs of gas sold ($42 million), which is offset in cost of sales, partly offset by higher wholesale volumes. EBIT increased $100 million (34.2%) in 2016 from 2015. The increase in EBIT was primarily
due to increased gross margins from electric revenues and lower operations and maintenance expenses, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization from additional assets placed in service, and higher interest expense.   
  MEC s revenues declined $346 million (12%) in 2015 from 2014. Regulated natural gas revenues declined $335 million, which
was primarily attributable to lower average  per-unit  cost of gas sold, which is substantially offset in lower cost of sales. Regulated electric revenues increased slightly, due primarily to higher retail rates
in Iowa and higher volumes, partially offset by lower average wholesale prices. The increases in regulated electric rates in Iowa are attributable to higher retail rates and changes in rate structure approved in August 2014, which results in a
greater differential between higher rates from June to September and lower rates in the remaining months.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Utilities and Energy ( Berkshire Hathaway Energy
Company )    (Continued)            MidAmerican Energy Company (Continued)    
   
   EBIT increased $22 million (8%) in 2015 compared to 2014, reflecting an increase in
gross margins ($107 million), partially offset by increases in depreciation expense from new wind generation and other   plant-in-service   ($56 million), interest expense
($17 million) and lower allowances for equity funds used during construction ($19 million). The increase in gross margins derived primarily from the regulated electric business, which benefitted from the aforementioned changes in Iowa rates and rate
structure and lower fuel and purchased power costs. In addition, EBIT included a gain of $13 million in 2015 from the sale of a generating facility lease.       NV Energy       NV Energy operates regulated electric and natural gas utilities
in Nevada. Revenues were approximately $2.9 billion in 2016, a decrease of $457 million (13.5%) versus 2015. The decline was primarily attributable to lower electric retail rates resulting from lower energy costs. Electric retail volumes
in 2016 were flat compared to 2015. EBIT fell $27 million (4.6%) compared to 2015. The decline in revenues was substantially offset by a decline in energy costs. Operating expenses increased $39 million (4%) and interest expense decreased
$17 million (6.6%). The increase in operating expenses reflected higher depreciation and amortization and reductions in certain accrued liabilities in 2015.      Revenues and EBIT were $3.4 billion and $586 million in 2015, representing increases of $103 million (3%) and $37 million (7%) over 2014. The increase in revenues was due
primarily to higher retail electric revenues reflecting increased customers and higher volumes. The increase in EBIT was attributable to an increase in gross margins ($82 million) and lower interest expense ($22 million), partially offset by
increased depreciation and amortization ($31 million) and higher other operating expenses, including increased energy efficiency costs.       Northern Powergrid       Revenues declined $144 million (12.6%) to
$997 million in 2016, primarily due to the impact of a stronger U.S. Dollar ($127 million) and lower distribution revenues. EBIT declined $93 million (20.2%) to $367 million. The decline was due to lower distribution revenues and
the stronger U.S. Dollar, as well as increases in depreciation expense from increased assets in service and higher asset impairment charges.      Revenues declined $143 million (11%) in 2015 versus 2014, reflecting the adverse impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar ($90 million) and comparatively lower distribution revenues. The decline in
distribution revenues reflected lower rates due mainly to the new price control period effective April 1, 2015. EBIT declined $67 million (13%) compared to 2014, reflecting the adverse effects of the stronger U.S. Dollar and
lower distribution revenues partially offset by lower interest expense ($13 million).       Natural Gas Pipelines
      Revenues declined $32 million (3.1%) in 2016 as compared to 2015, primarily due to the impact of lower gas sales from
balancing activities and lower transportation revenues from lower volumes and rates, in part due to comparatively milder temperatures in the first quarter of 2016. EBIT increased $12 million (3.0%) versus 2015, reflecting lower interest
expense, resulting from lower average debt balances and lower operating expenses, partly offset by the lower transportation revenues.      Revenues declined $75 million (7%) in 2015 versus 2014, which was primarily due to lower gas sales as a result of reduced system and operational balancing activities, partially offset by higher
transportation revenues. EBIT increased $22 million (6%) as compared to 2014, as decreased costs of gas sold and lower operating expenses more than offset the decline in revenues.   
   Other energy businesses       Revenues declined $98 million (4.2%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The decline in comparative revenues was principally attributable to lower revenues from AltaLink and from our unregulated retail
services business. AltaLink s   year-to-date   revenue decline reflected the impact of a regulatory decision in the second quarter of 2016 that resulted in  one-time  net reductions in revenue, which more than offset increased revenues from additional assets placed in service. The regulatory decision changed the timing of when   construction-in-progress   expenditures included in the rate base are billable to customers and earned in revenues, but had no impact on net earnings, as  one-time 
reductions in expenses offset the  one-time  revenue reduction. EBIT declined $17 million (4.3%) compared to 2015, primarily due to lower earnings from our renewable energy businesses, primarily due to
higher depreciation expense from additional assets placed in service.   
         43   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Utilities and Energy ( Berkshire Hathaway Energy
Company )    (Continued)            Other energy businesses (Continued)    
   
   Revenues of other energy businesses increased $739 million (46.7%) in 2015 over
revenues in 2014, while EBIT increased $130 million (49%) versus 2014. Revenues and EBIT in 2015 reflect the acquisition of AltaLink on December 1, 2014. AltaLink s revenues and EBIT in 2015 were $621 million and
$170 million, respectively. The remaining increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in solar capacity placed in service. Excluding the acquisition of AltaLink, the impact of higher revenues in 2015 was more than offset by higher
operating, depreciation and interest expenses.       Real estate brokerage    
  Revenues increased 11.0% to $2.8 billion in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to increased closed brokerage
transactions (primarily resulting from business acquisitions) and a 2% increase in average home sales prices, as well as higher mortgage revenues. EBIT increased $34 million (17.8%) in 2016 compared to 2015, primarily due to the increases in
mortgage revenues.      Real estate brokerage revenues and EBIT increased 17% and 37%, respectively, in 2015 compared to 2014. The
revenue increase reflected comparative increases in closed transactions and average home prices and the impact of business acquisitions. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to the increased revenues, net of commission expense, as well as a lower
operating expense to revenue ratio as compared to 2014.       Corporate interest and income taxes    
  Corporate interest includes interest on unsecured debt issued by BHE and borrowings from certain Berkshire insurance subsidiaries in
connection with BHE s acquisitions of NV Energy and AltaLink. The decline in corporate interest in 2016 was primarily due to lower average borrowings from Berkshire insurance subsidiaries. In 2015, corporate interest expense increased over the
prior year due to new borrowings in connection with the AltaLink acquisition.      BHE s consolidated effective income tax
rates were approximately 14% in 2016, 16% in 2015, and 23% in 2014. BHE s effective income tax rates regularly reflect significant production tax credits from wind-powered electricity generation placed in service. In addition,  pre-tax  earnings of Northern Powergrid and AltaLink are taxed at lower statutory rates in the United Kingdom and Canada compared to the U.S. statutory tax rate. BHE s effective rates in 2016 and 2015 also
included reductions in deferred income tax liabilities resulting from enacted statutory income tax rate decreases in the United Kingdom and deferred state income tax benefits.        Manufacturing, Service and Retailing        A summary of revenues and
earnings of our manufacturing, retailing and service businesses follows (in millions).       

*   
   Excludes certain acquisition accounting expenses, which were primarily from the amortization of identified intangible assets recorded in connection with our business
acquisitions. The  after-tax  acquisition accounting expenses excluded from earnings above were $771 million in 2016, $476 million in 2015 and $496 million in 2014. These expenses are included in
 other  in the summary of earnings on page 32 and in the  other  earnings section on page 51.      
         44   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)
           
    Manufacturing    
  Our manufacturing group includes a variety of businesses that produce industrial, building and consumer products. Industrial products
businesses include specialty chemicals (The Lubrizol Corporation ( Lubrizol )), metal cutting tools/systems (IMC International Metalworking Companies ( IMC )), equipment and systems for the livestock and agricultural industries
(CTB International), and a variety of industrial products for diverse markets (Marmon and Scott Fetzer). Beginning on January 29, 2016, our industrial products group also includes Precision Castparts Corp. ( PCC ), a leading
manufacturer of complex metal products for aerospace, power and general industrial markets.      Our building products businesses
include flooring (Shaw), insulation, roofing and engineered products (Johns Manville), bricks and masonry products (Acme Building Brands), paint and coatings (Benjamin Moore), and residential and commercial construction and engineering products and
systems (MiTek). Our consumer products businesses include leisure vehicles (Forest River), several apparel and footwear operations (including Fruit of the Loom, Garan, H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Brooks Sports), and beginning February 29, 2016,
the Duracell Company ( Duracell ), a leading manufacturer of high performance alkaline batteries. This group also includes custom picture framing products (Larson Juhl) and jewelry products (Richline). A summary of revenues and  pre-tax  earnings of our manufacturing operations follows (in millions).       
    Aggregate revenues in 2016 were approximately $46.5 billion, an increase of approximately
$10.4 billion (28.7%) over 2015.  Pre-tax  earnings were approximately $6.2 billion in 2016, an increase of $1.3 billion (26.9%) compared to 2015. Excluding PCC and Duracell, manufacturing
revenues were flat and  pre-tax  earnings declined compared to 2015.       Industrial
products       Industrial products revenues increased approximately $7.9 billion (47.4%) in 2016 versus 2015, primarily due
to the inclusion of PCC, partially offset by revenue declines of $859 million (5.1%) across our other businesses. Sales volumes of our other businesses declined compared to 2015, reflecting sluggish demand for many product categories,
particularly for products sold to businesses in the oil and gas and heavy equipment industries. In addition, lower average costs of  oil-based  raw materials and metals and increased competitive pressures
continued to lower average selling prices.       Pre-tax  earnings increased
$1.2 billion (40.6%) in 2016 compared to 2015, reflecting the inclusion of PCC, partially offset by comparative earnings declines from our other businesses. Lubrizol s earnings in 2016 included
 pre-tax  losses of $365 million in 2016 related to the disposition in the fourth quarter of an underperforming business. Earnings from several of Marmon s manufacturing businesses and Lubrizol s
continuing operations declined, while earnings from IMC increased slightly. Generally, our industrial products manufacturers experienced a combination of weaker customer demand, sales price and mix changes, and increased restructuring costs, which
were partly offset by benefits from cost containment initiatives and lower average material prices.      Revenues declined
$862 million (5%) in 2015 versus 2014. The foreign currency translation impact of a stronger U.S. Dollar produced approximately $782 million of the comparative revenue decline. In addition, commodity cost deflation in petroleum and
metals used in certain of our products resulted in lower average selling prices, in particular for specialty chemicals, metal cutting tools, copper wire and plumbing products. Certain of our businesses experienced slowing customer demand over the
last half of 2015 as the decline in oil prices and competitive pressures resulted in significantly lower sales volumes to customers in or related to the oil and gas industry. These negative factors were partly offset by revenues from  bolt-on  acquisitions of Lubrizol.       Pre-tax  earnings
declined $165 million (5%) in 2015 compared to 2014. The comparative declines in earnings reflected the adverse impact of the stronger U.S. Dollar, partially offset by earnings from  bolt-on 
acquisitions, lower average commodity-based material costs, and actions taken in response to the slowing sales volumes previously referenced. Such actions address cost structures and exiting lower margin business.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)
           
    Building products    
  Building products revenues increased $456 million (4.4%) in 2016 compared to 2015, reflecting volume-driven revenue increases by
MiTek, Johns Manville, Acme and Shaw, as well as revenues from  bolt-on  acquisitions by Shaw and MiTek. The revenue increase reflected increased unit sales across several product categories, partly offset by
lower average sales prices and changes in product mix.  Pre-tax  earnings increased $11 million (0.9%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The favorable effects of increased sales volume and lower manufacturing
costs in 2016 (attributable to deflation in certain commodity unit costs) were offset by increased charges for asset impairments, pension settlements and environmental claims.      Revenues increased $192 million (2%) in 2015 compared to 2014. The revenue increase reflected sales volume increases at Shaw, Johns Manville and MiTek, as well as the impact of  bolt-on  business acquisitions, partially offset by the unfavorable foreign currency translation from a stronger U.S. Dollar ($165 million).  Pre-tax  earnings increased
$271 million (30%) compared to 2014. The overall increase in earnings was primarily attributable to the aforementioned increases in revenues and lower average raw material and energy costs, partially offset by the negative impact of
foreign currency translation and increased restructuring charges. Shaw, Johns Manville and Benjamin Moore generated most of the comparative increase in earnings.       Consumer products       Consumer products revenues were approximately
$11.0 billion in 2016, an increase of approximately $2.0 billion (21.8%) compared to 2015. The increase reflected the inclusion of Duracell and a 12% increase in Forest River s revenues, which was primarily attributable to increased
unit sales. Apparel revenues in 2016 declined $81 million (1.9%) compared to 2015, reflecting lower footwear sales and the impact of a divestiture by Fruit of the Loom in 2015.   
  Consumer products  pre-tax  earnings increased $92 million (12.6%) in 2016 compared to 2015.
The earnings increase reflected increased earnings from Forest River and apparel and footwear businesses, partly offset by  pre-tax  losses of Duracell. From its acquisition date, Duracell incurred approximately
$109 million in transition, business integration and restructuring costs. Forest River generated a  pre-tax  earnings increase of 28%, primarily due to increased sales volumes and higher gross margins.
Earnings of our apparel businesses increased 22% in 2016, primarily attributable to lower restructuring costs and a loss in 2015 from the disposition of a Fruit of the Loom operation, partly offset by lower earnings from our footwear businesses.
     Revenues of our consumer products manufacturers were approximately $9.1 billion in 2015, relatively unchanged from 2014.
Forest River s revenues increased 6% compared to 2014, due to a 4% increase in unit sales and increased average prices. Apparel revenues in 2015 declined 4% compared to 2014. The decline in apparel revenues was attributable to lower volume and
the negative impact of foreign currency translation resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar.  Pre-tax  earnings declined $24 million (3%) in 2015 compared to 2014. The decline was primarily due to a  pre-tax  loss in 2015 from the disposition of an unprofitable Fruit of the Loom operation and lower earnings from our footwear businesses, partially offset by higher earnings from Forest River.   
   Service and retailing       Our service and retailing businesses are comprised of a large group of independently managed businesses engaged in a variety of activities. A summary of revenues and
 pre-tax  earnings of these operations follows (in millions).       
     Service       Our service businesses offer fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft (NetJets) and high technology training to operators of aircraft (FlightSafety). We also distribute electronic
components (TTI) and franchise and service a network of quick service restaurants (Dairy Queen). Services also include the electronic distribution of corporate news, multimedia and regulatory filings (Business Wire), publication of newspapers and
other publications (Buffalo News and the BH Media Group) and operation of a television station in Miami, Florida (WPLG). We also offer third party logistics services that primarily serve the petroleum and chemical industries (Charter Brokerage).
  
         46   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)
           Service (Continued)    
   
   Service revenues increased 1.8% to approximately $10.4 billion in 2016 compared to
2015, primarily due to revenue increases from TTI and Charter Brokerage partly offset by a revenue decrease from NetJets. TTI s revenues increased 7.2%, primarily due to sales volume increases in Asia, Europe and through the Internet, while the
increase from Charter Brokerage primarily derived from a commodity trading business launched in 2015. NetJets  revenues decreased 2.0% reflecting lower aircraft sales.       Pre-tax  earnings were $1.2 billion in 2016, relatively unchanged versus 2015, reflecting increased earnings from NetJets and lower earnings from our newspaper
operations. NetJets  earnings increased 19%, primarily due to lower subcontracting expense and a decline in losses from aircraft impairments and dispositions, partly offset by increases in depreciation and restructuring charges and reduced
aircraft sale margins. TTI s earnings were relatively unchanged, as changes in geographic sales mix and price competition produced lower gross margin rates, substantially offsetting the aforementioned revenue increase.   
  Revenues increased $347 million (3.5%) in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increase included a 5% increase in NetJets  revenues
and the impact of the acquisitions of Charter Brokerage and WPLG during 2014, partly offset by reduced revenues from our newspaper operations. The increase in NetJets  revenues was attributable to a 50% increase in aircraft sales, partially
offset by lower flight operations revenue.       Pre-tax  earnings declined $46 million
in 2015 compared to 2014. Earnings benefitted from the WPLG and Charter Brokerage acquisitions, which were more than offset by lower earnings from NetJets. Earnings declined at NetJets as the impact of increased aircraft sales margins was more than
offset by increased personnel, aircraft subcontracting and maintenance expenses. A portion of the increase in personnel costs pertained to  lump-sum  payments made in connection with a collective bargaining
agreement reached with our pilots in the fourth quarter of 2015.       Retailing    
  Our retailing businesses include four distinct home furnishings retailing businesses (Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey, Star Furniture
and Jordan s), which sell furniture, appliances, flooring and electronics. Our retailers also include Berkshire Hathaway Automotive ( BHA ), which we acquired in the first quarter of 2015. BHA currently includes 83 auto dealerships.
BHA sells new and  pre-owned  automobiles, offering repair and other related services and products, and also includes two related insurance businesses, two auto auctions and a distributor of automotive fluid
maintenance products.      Our other retailing businesses include three jewelry retailing businesses (Borsheims, Helzberg and Ben
Bridge), See s Candies (confectionary products), Pampered Chef (high quality kitchen tools), Oriental Trading Company (party supplies, school supplies and toys and novelties) and Detlev Louis Motorrad ( Louis ), a Germany-based
retailer of motorcycle accessories acquired in the second quarter of 2015.      Retailing revenues increased $1.8 billion
(13.8%) in 2016 to $15.1 billion as compared to 2015. The increase in revenues reflected the impact of the BHA and Louis acquisitions during 2015, which accounted for approximately $1.6 billion of the comparative increase. Home furnishings
revenues increased $227 million (7.8%), primarily due to new stores opened in 2015 by Nebraska Furniture Mart and Jordan s, as well as modest organic growth.  Pre-tax  earnings increased
$95 million (16.8%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase reflected the impact of the BHA and Louis acquisitions and increased earnings from most of our other retailers, which benefitted from a combination of revenue increases and cost savings
initiatives.      Revenues increased approximately $8.8 billion in 2015 as compared to 2014. The increase reflected the
impact of the BHA and Louis acquisitions, which together contributed revenues of approximately $8.3 billion. Revenues of our home furnishings retailers increased $572 million (24%) over 2014, driven by Nebraska Furniture Mart, which
opened a new store in March 2015 and from increases at R.C. Willey and Jordan s.  Pre-tax  earnings increased $220 million (64%) compared to 2014. The increase was primarily due to the impact of
the BHA and Louis acquisitions.       McLane Company    
  McLane operates a wholesale distribution business that provides grocery and  non-food  consumer
products to retailers and convenience stores ( grocery ) and to restaurants ( foodservice ). McLane also operates businesses that are wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer ( beverage ). The grocery
and foodservice businesses generate high sales volumes and very low profit margins and have several significant customers, including  Wal-Mart,   7-Eleven  and Yum! Brands.
A curtailment of purchasing by any of its significant customers could have an adverse impact on McLane s periodic revenues and earnings.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)
           McLane Company (Continued)    
   
   Revenues were $48.1 billion in 2016, a decline of $148 million (0.3%) relative
to 2015. In 2016, we experienced a comparative decline in grocery revenues, partly offset by an increase in foodservice revenues. Earnings were $431 million in 2016, a decrease of $71 million (14%) compared to 2015. The reduced earnings
was primarily due to a reduction in McLane s operating margin (ratio of earnings to revenues). The decline was primarily due to increased employee related costs. Competition in our grocery and foodservice businesses has been and will likely
continue to be intense and our ability to control operating costs is a key factor in maintaining profitability. Additionally, earnings in 2015 included a gain of $19 million from the disposition of a subsidiary.   
  Revenues increased $1.6 billion (3%) in 2015 compared to 2014, reflecting revenue increases in the foodservice unit (6%), beverage
unit (8%) and grocery unit (2%).  Pre-tax  earnings increased $67 million (15%) in 2015 versus 2014.  Pre-tax  earnings in 2015 included the aforementioned gain
from the sale of a subsidiary and otherwise benefitted from lower fuel and trucking costs.        Finance and Financial
Products        Our finance and financial products businesses include manufactured housing and finance (Clayton Homes),
transportation equipment manufacturing and leasing businesses (UTLX and XTRA, and together,  transportation equipment leasing ), as well as other leasing and financing activities. A summary of revenues and earnings from our finance and
financial products businesses follows (in millions).       
     Manufactured housing and finance    
  Clayton Homes  revenues increased $654 million (18%) in 2016 compared to 2015, attributable to a 30% increase in revenues from
home sales, primarily due to a 25% increase in units sold and product mix changes. Interest and other financial service income increased 1.8% from 2015.  Pre-tax  earnings increased $38 million (5.4%)
compared to 2015. Earnings benefitted from increased home sales and improved manufacturing and retailing operating margins, partly offset by lower earnings from lending and financial services, which were negatively impacted by increased insurance
losses. A significant portion of Clayton s earnings are generated from lending activities, which in recent years benefitted from relatively low delinquency rates and loan losses and from declining borrowing costs attributable to lower average
interest rates. As of December 31, 2016, Clayton Homes  installment loan portfolio was approximately $13.3 billion and approximately 94% of the loan balances were current in terms of payment status.   
  Revenues and  pre-tax  earnings increased $266 million (8%) and $148 million (27%)
in 2015, respectively, as compared to 2014. The revenue increase was primarily due to a 9% increase in home unit sales. The increase in earnings was primarily due to lower interest expense, improved manufacturing results, relatively low delinquency
rates and lower loss rates on loan foreclosures. The decline in interest expense was primarily due to lower interest rates and to a lesser extent lower average balances.       Transportation equipment leasing       Transportation equipment leasing revenues
increased $110 million (4.3%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase derived primarily from the acquisition of General Electric Company s ( GE ) tank car fleet and its railcar repair services business in 2015 and increased rates
and tank car additions. These increases were partly offset by lower utilization rates, unfavorable foreign currency effects, lower crane lease demand in North America and reduced volume related to oil and gas markets.   
         48   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Finance and Financial Products    (Continued)
           Transportation equipment leasing (Continued)    
   
    Pre-tax  earnings increased $50 million
(5.5%) in 2016 compared to 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to revenue growth and lower depreciation rates on certain tank car assets, partially offset by higher repair costs and interest expense on new borrowings from a Berkshire
financing subsidiary. Significant portions of transportation leasing expenses, such as depreciation, do not vary proportionately to revenue changes and therefore changes in revenues can disproportionately impact earnings.   
  Revenues increased 5% in 2015 compared to 2014. The increase reflected increased railcar lease rates, a larger fleet of railcars, higher
volumes in our Australian crane business, increased   over-the-road   trailers on lease and gains on dispositions of trailers. These increases were partially offset by the
unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange attributable to a stronger U.S. Dollar and lower volumes in our North American crane leasing business due to declines in oil drilling activity. As previously mentioned, we acquired GE s tank
car fleet on September 30, 2015, which included approximately 25,000 tank cars. We also acquired several railcar repair and maintenance facilities at the end of 2015.       Pre-tax  earnings increased $82 million (10%) in 2015 compared to 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to the positive impact of the revenue growth
discussed above, which more than offset the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and higher railcar repair and warranty costs and depreciation attributable to a larger fleet size.   
   Other    
  Other finance activities include CORT furniture leasing, our share of the earnings of a commercial mortgage servicing business
( Berkadia ) in which we own a 50% interest, and interest and dividends from a portfolio of investments. Other earnings decreased $44 million in 2016 compared to 2015, reflecting lower earnings from investment securities, partly
offset by increased earnings from CORT and Berkadia. Other earnings also includes income from interest rate spreads charged on borrowings by a Berkshire financing subsidiary that are used to finance Clayton Homes  installment loans and
beginning in 2016, UTLX s fleet of rail/tank cars held for lease. Offsetting expenses ($74 million in 2016, $62 million in 2015 and $68 million in 2014) were included in Clayton Homes  and UTLX s results.   
    Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses        A summary of investment and derivative gains and losses and other-than-temporary impairment losses on investments follows (in millions).   
   
     Investment gains/losses       Investment gains/losses arise primarily from the sale, redemption or exchange of investments. The timing of gains or losses can have a material effect on periodic earnings. Investment gains and losses
included in earnings usually have minimal impact on the periodic changes in our consolidated shareholders  equity since most of our investments are recorded at fair value with the unrealized gains and losses included in shareholders 
equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.      We believe the amount of investment gains/losses included in
earnings in any given period typically has little analytical or predictive value. Our decisions to sell securities are not motivated by the impact that the resulting gains or losses will have on our reported earnings. Although we do not consider
investment gains and losses as necessarily meaningful or useful in evaluating our periodic results, we are providing information to explain the nature of such gains and losses when reflected in our earnings.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses    (Continued)
           Investment gains/losses (Continued)    
   
    Pre-tax  investment gains were $7.6 billion
in 2016 and included gains of $2.4 billion from the sale to Mars Inc. of our Wrigley preferred stock investment, $610 million from the Kraft Heinz Preferred Stock redemption, $1.2 billion from the Dow Preferred Stock conversion into common
stock, and $1.1 billion from the exchange of shares of P G common stock for 100% of the common stock of Duracell. Income tax expense allocated to investment gains included a benefit from the reduction of certain deferred income tax
liabilities in connection with the exchange of P G common stock for Duracell.  Pre-tax  investment gains included  non-cash  holding gains related to our investment in
Kraft Heinz of $6.8 billion in 2015. In connection with its acquisition of Kraft Foods on July 2, 2015, Kraft Heinz issued new shares of its common stock in exchange for the outstanding shares of Kraft Foods common stock, thus reducing
Berkshire s ownership interest in Kraft Heinz by approximately 50%. Under the equity method of accounting, such transactions are treated by the investor as if it sold a portion of its interests.   
   Pre-tax  investment gains were $4.3 billion in 2014, which included gains of approximately
$2.1 billion realized in connection with the exchanges of common stock of Phillips 66 and Graham Holdings Company for 100% of the common stock of a specified subsidiary of each of those companies. Each exchange transaction in 2016 and 2014 was
structured as a  tax-free  reorganization under the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, no income taxes are payable on the excess of the fair value of the businesses received over the  tax-basis  of the common stock exchanged.       Other-than-temporary impairments
( OTTI )       OTTI charges in 2016 and 2015 were not significant and in 2014 were $697 million, predominantly
relating to our investment in equity securities of Tesco PLC. Although we have periodically recorded OTTI charges in earnings in past years, we continue to hold some of those securities. If the market values of those investments increase following
the date we recorded OTTI charges, the increases are included in shareholders  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income and not in earnings. When recorded, OTTI charges have no impact whatsoever on the asset values
otherwise recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets or on our consolidated shareholders  equity. In addition, the recognition of such losses in earnings rather than in accumulated other comprehensive income does not necessarily indicate that
sales are planned and sales ultimately may not occur for a number of years. Furthermore, the recognition of OTTI charges does not necessarily indicate that the loss in value of the security is permanent or that the market price of the security will
not subsequently increase to and ultimately exceed our original cost.       Derivative gains/losses    
  Derivative gains/losses primarily represented the changes in fair value of our credit default and equity index put option contract
liabilities. The periodic changes in the fair values of these liabilities are recorded in earnings and can be significant, reflecting the volatility of underlying credit and equity markets and the changes in the inputs used to measure such
liabilities.      Changes in the values of our equity index put option contract liabilities produced
 pre-tax  gains of $662 million in 2016, which were primarily due to increases in the index values, favorable foreign currency exchange rate changes and shorter remaining contract durations, partly offset
by lower interest rates. Our equity index put option contracts produced  pre-tax  gains of approximately $1.0 billion in 2015, which were primarily attributable to a stronger U.S. Dollar and shorter
remaining durations. These contracts produced  pre-tax  gains of $108 million in 2014. Such gains reflected the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes and generally higher index values,
partially offset by the effect of lower interest rate assumptions.      As of December 31, 2016, the aggregate intrinsic value
of our equity put option contracts was approximately $1.0 billion and our recorded liability was approximately $2.9 billion. Our ultimate payment obligations, if any, under our equity index put option contracts will be determined as of the
contract expiration dates (beginning in 2018), and will be based on the intrinsic value as defined under the contracts.      In
July 2016, our remaining credit default contract was terminated by mutual agreement with the counterparty and we paid the counterparty $195 million. This contract produced  pre-tax  earnings of
$89 million in 2016,  pre-tax  losses of $34 million in 2015 and  pre-tax  earnings of $397 million in 2014. We have no further exposure to losses under
credit default contracts.   
         50   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      
     
     Other     
  A summary of  after-tax  other earnings (losses) which include corporate income (including income
from our investments in Kraft Heinz), expenses and income taxes not allocated to operating businesses is summarized below (in millions).       
    The reduced earnings in 2016 from our investments in Kraft Heinz were due to lower dividends from our
Preferred Stock investment, which was redeemed in June 2016, somewhat offset by increased equity method earnings from our common stock investment. Other earnings also include charges from the application of the acquisition method in connection with
Berkshire s business acquisitions. Such charges were primarily from the amortization of intangible assets recorded in connection with those business acquisitions, which we view as corporate expenses. Corporate interest expense includes  after-tax  foreign exchange gains of $159 million in 2016 and losses of $45 million in 2015 with respect to Euro denominated debt issued by Berkshire in March 2015 ( 3.0 billion par) and March
2016 ( 2.75 billion par). Excluding foreign currency effects,  after-tax  corporate interest expense was $256 million in 2016 and $146 million in 2015. The increase in 2016 was attributable
to increased average outstanding debt.       Financial Condition       Our balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital base. Our consolidated shareholders  equity at December 31, 2016 was $283.0 billion, an increase of
$27.5 billion since December 31, 2015. Net earnings attributable to Berkshire shareholders in 2016 were $24.1 billion. At December 31, 2016, our insurance and other businesses held cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills
of $70.9 billion, and investments (excluding our investment in Kraft Heinz) of $158.3 billion.      In January 2016, we
used cash of approximately $32.1 billion to fund the acquisition of PCC, which we funded through a combination of cash on hand and $10 billion borrowed under a  364-day  revolving credit agreement. We
repaid these borrowings following our issuance in March 2016, of  2.75 billion and $5.5 billion of senior unsecured notes. In August 2016, we issued $750 million of senior unsecured notes to replace $750 million of maturing
notes. In January 2017, Berkshire issued new senior notes aggregating  1.1 billion and repaid $1.1 billion of maturing senior notes. There are no other parent company term debt maturities in 2017.   
  Our railroad, utilities and energy businesses (conducted by BNSF and BHE) maintain very large investments in capital assets (property,
plant and equipment) and will regularly make significant capital expenditures in the normal course of business. In 2016, capital expenditures included $5.1 billion by BHE and $3.8 billion by BNSF. Aggregate capital expenditures of these
businesses are forecasted to be $8.6 billion in 2017. We expect future capital expenditures will be funded by cash flows from operations and debt issuances.      BNSF s outstanding debt was approximately $22.0 billion as of December 31, 2016, an increase of $307 million from December 31, 2015. Outstanding borrowings of BHE and its
subsidiaries, excluding its borrowings from Berkshire insurance subsidiaries, were approximately $37.0 billion as of December 31, 2016, an increase of approximately $1.0 billion from December 31, 2015. BNSF and BHE debt
maturities in 2017 will be $3.6 billion. Berkshire does not guarantee the repayment of debt issued by BNSF, BHE or any of their subsidiaries and is not committed to provide capital to support BNSF or BHE or any of their subsidiaries.
     Finance and financial products assets were approximately $41.7 billion as of December 31, 2016, an increase of
approximately $2.7 billion since December 31, 2015. Finance assets consist primarily of loans and finance receivables, various types of property held for lease, and cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Treasury Bills and other investments. In
September 2016, a Berkshire finance subsidiary received approximately $4.6 billion from the sale of its Wrigley preferred stock investment.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Financial Condition   (Continued)      
   
   Finance and financial products liabilities were approximately $19.7 billion as of
December 31, 2016, an increase of approximately $2.5 billion compared to December 31, 2015. The increase was attributable to $3.5 billion of debt issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation ( BHFC ) in March,
partly offset by lower derivative contract liabilities. The debt proceeds were used to fund loans originated and acquired by Clayton Homes and to fund a portion of existing assets held for lease by our UTLX railcar leasing business. In January 2017,
BHFC issued new senior notes aggregating $1.3 billion due in 2019 and 2020 and repaid $1.05 billion of maturing notes. Over the remainder of 2017, an additional $1.75 billion of BHFC senior notes will mature. While we currently intend
to have BHFC issue additional notes in 2017 to replace the maturing debt, the amount to be issued will be based on prevailing market conditions.      Berkshire s Board of Directors has authorized Berkshire to repurchase its Class A and Class B common shares at prices no higher than a 20% premium over the book value of the shares.
Berkshire may repurchase shares at management s discretion and there is no obligation to repurchase any shares. We expect the program to continue indefinitely. We will not repurchase shares if it reduces the total amount of Berkshire s
consolidated cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills holdings below $20 billion. Financial strength and redundant liquidity will always be of paramount importance at Berkshire. There were no share repurchases under the program in 2016.
      Contractual Obligations       We are party to contracts associated with ongoing business and financing activities, which will result in cash payments to counterparties in future periods. Certain obligations are included in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets, such as notes payable, which require future payments on contractually specified dates and in fixed and determinable amounts. Other obligations pertain to the acquisition of goods or services in the future, such as
minimum rentals under operating leases and certain purchase obligations, and are not currently reflected in the financial statements, but will be recognized in future periods as the goods are delivered or services are provided.   
  The timing and/or amount of the payments under certain contracts are contingent upon the outcome of future events. Actual payments will
likely vary, perhaps significantly, from estimates reflected in the table that follows. Most significantly, the timing and amount of future payments arising under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts are contingent upon the
outcome of claim settlement activities or events. In addition, obligations arising under life, annuity and health insurance benefits are contingent on future premiums, allowances, mortality, morbidity, expenses and policy lapse rates, as applicable.
These amounts are included in the following table based on the liability estimates reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016. Although certain insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses and life, annuity and health
benefits are recoverable under reinsurance contracts, those receivables recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are not reflected in the table.      A summary of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 follows (in millions).       

(1)  
    
     Primarily obligations of BHE, BNSF and NetJets.       

(2)  
    
     Before reserve discounts of $1.4 billion.           

(3)  
    
     Amounts represent estimated undiscounted benefits, net of estimated future premiums, as applicable.       
         52   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      
     
    Critical Accounting Policies    
  Certain accounting policies require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Such estimates and judgments necessarily involve varying, and possibly significant, degrees of uncertainty. Accordingly, certain amounts currently recorded in the financial statements will likely be adjusted in the future based on new
available information and changes in other facts and circumstances.        Property and casualty losses     
  We record liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses based upon estimates of the ultimate amounts payable for losses
occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Except for certain workers  compensation reinsurance claims, we record all liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (referred to in this section as  gross unpaid
losses ) in the Consolidated Balance Sheets without discounting for time value. The timing and amount of ultimate loss payments are contingent upon, among other things, the timing of claim reporting from insureds and ceding companies and the
final determination of the loss amount through the loss adjustment process. We use a variety of techniques in establishing liabilities and all techniques require significant judgments and assumptions. We believe the processes and techniques utilized
best suit the underlying claims and available data.      As of any balance sheet date, recorded liabilities include provisions for
reported claims, as well as claims not yet reported and the development of reported claims. The period between the loss occurrence date and loss settlement date is the  claim-tail.  Property claims usually have relatively short
claim-tails, absent litigation. Casualty claims usually have longer claim-tails, occasionally extending for decades. Casualty claims may be more susceptible to litigation and the impact of changing contract interpretations. The legal environment and
judicial process further contributes to extending claim-tails. Our liabilities as of December 31, 2016 were $76.9 billion, of which 85% related to GEICO, General Re and BHRG. Additional information regarding significant uncertainties
inherent in the processes and techniques of GEICO, General Re and BHRG follows.       GEICO    
  GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance. As of December 31, 2016, GEICO s gross unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses were $15.5 billion and unpaid losses net of reinsurance recoverable were $14.4 billion.   
  GEICO s claim reserving methodologies produce liability estimates based upon the individual claims. The key assumptions affecting
our liability estimates include projections of ultimate claim counts ( frequency ) and average loss per claim ( severity ). We utilize a combination of several actuarial estimation methods, including Bornhuetter-Ferguson and
chain-ladder methodologies.      Liability estimates for automobile liability coverages (such as bodily injury ( BI ),
uninsured motorists, and personal injury protection) are more uncertain due to the longer claim-tails, so we establish additional case development estimates. As of December 31, 2016, case development liabilities averaged approximately 25% of
the case reserves. We select case development factors through analysis of the overall adequacy of historical case liabilities.   
  For unreported claims, IBNR liabilities are based on projections of the ultimate number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for
each significant coverage. We use historical claim count data to develop   age-to-age   projections of the ultimate counts by quarterly accident period, from which we deduct
reported claims to produce the number of unreported claims. We estimate the average costs per unreported claim and apply such estimates to the unreported claim counts, producing an IBNR liability estimate. We may record additional IBNR estimates
when actuarial techniques are difficult to apply.      For significant coverages, we test the adequacy of the aggregate
liabilities for unpaid losses using one or more actuarial projections based on claim closure models, and paid and incurred loss triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims occurring in a given period and projects the
ultimate cost.      Unpaid loss and loss adjustment expense liability estimates recorded at the end of 2015 developed downward by
$61 million when reevaluated through December 31, 2016, which produced a corresponding increase to  pre-tax  earnings in 2016. We modified the assumptions used to estimate liabilities at
December 31, 2016 as appropriate to reflect the most recent frequency and severity results. Future development of recorded liabilities will depend on whether actual frequency and severity are more or less than anticipated.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Property and casualty losses    (Continued)
           GEICO (Continued)    
   
   With respect to liabilities for BI claims, our most significant claim category, we
believe it is reasonably possible that average severities will change by at least one percentage point from the severities used in establishing the recorded liabilities at December 31, 2016. We estimate that a one percentage point increase or
decrease in BI severities would produce a $240 million increase or decrease in recorded liabilities, with a corresponding decrease or increase in  pre-tax  earnings. Many of the same economic forces that
would likely cause BI severity to differ from expectations would likely also cause severities for other injury coverages to differ in the same direction.       General Re and BHRG       Liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses
and loss adjustment expenses of General Re and BHRG derive primarily from reinsurance contracts. In connection with reinsurance contracts, the nature, extent, timing and perceived reliability of information received from ceding companies varies
widely depending on the type of coverage and the contractual reporting terms. Contract terms, conditions and coverages also tend to lack standardization and may evolve more rapidly than primary insurance policies.   
  The nature and extent of loss information provided under many facultative (individual risk), per occurrence excess or retroactive
reinsurance contracts may not differ significantly from the information received under a primary insurance contract if reinsurer personnel either work closely with the ceding company in settling individual claims or manage the claims themselves.
However, loss information is often less detailed with respect to aggregate   excess-of-loss   and quota-share contracts. Additionally, loss information we receive through
periodic reports is often in a summary format rather than on an individual claim basis. Loss data includes recoverable paid losses, as well as case loss estimates. Ceding companies infrequently provide IBNR estimates to reinsurers.   
  Loss reporting to reinsurers is typically slower in comparison to primary insurers. Periodic premium and claims reports are required from
ceding companies. In the U.S., such reports are generally required at quarterly intervals ranging from 30 to 90 days after the end of the accounting period. Outside of the U.S., reinsurance reporting practices may vary further. In certain countries,
clients report annually, often 90 to 180 days after the end of the annual period. In some instances, reinsurers assume and cede underlying risks thereby creating multiple contractual intermediaries between us and the primary insured potentially
compounding the claim reporting delays. The relative impact of reporting delays on the reinsurer may vary depending on the type of coverage, contractual reporting terms and the magnitude of the claim relative to the attachment point of the
reinsurance contract and for other reasons.      The premium and loss data we receive is through at least one intermediary (the
primary insurer), so there is a risk that the loss data reported is incomplete, inaccurate or the claim is outside the coverage terms. When received, we review the information for completeness and compliance with the contract terms. Generally, our
reinsurance contracts permit us to access the ceding company s books and records with respect to the subject business, thus providing the ability to audit the reported information.   
  In the normal course of business, disputes occasionally arise concerning whether claims are covered by our reinsurance policies. We
resolve most coverage disputes through negotiation with the client. If disputes cannot be resolved, our contracts generally provide arbitration, litigation or alternative dispute resolution processes. There are no coverage disputes at this time for
which an adverse resolution would likely have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.       General Re       Information concerning General Re s gross and net unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2016 follows (in millions).       

(1)  
    
     Net of discounts of approximately $1.4 billion.       
         54   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Property and casualty losses    (Continued)
           General Re (Continued)    
   
   For General Re, the critical processes involved in estimating unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses include the establishment of case liability estimates, the determination of expected loss ratios, which drive IBNR liability estimates, and the comparison of reported loss trends to the expected loss reporting patterns. Recorded
liabilities are subject to  tail risk  where reported losses are beyond the expected loss emergence period.      Our
process for estimating unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses begins with case loss estimates made by the ceding company. Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, we independently evaluate the case losses reported and if
appropriate, we use our own case liability estimate. As of December 31, 2016, our case loss estimates exceeded ceding company estimates by approximately $2.2 billion, which were concentrated in the workers  compensation line. We also
periodically conduct detailed reviews of individual client claims, which may cause us to adjust our case estimates.      In
estimating IBNR liabilities, we consider expected case loss emergence and development patterns, together with expected loss ratios by year. In this process, we classify all loss and premium data into segments ( cells ) based primarily on
product type (e.g., treaty, facultative and program), line of business (e.g., auto liability, property and workers  compensation) and geographic jurisdiction. For each cell, we aggregate premiums and losses by accident year, policy year or
underwriting year and analyze the data over time. There are several hundred cells. We use loss triangles to determine the expected development of reported claims for most coverages, which, together with the expected loss ratios, are used to
calculate IBNR liability estimates. We select expected loss ratios by cell and by year based upon indicated ultimate loss ratios and forecasted losses obtained from pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate loss ratios are determined from the selected
loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned premiums. Factors affecting our loss development triangles include, but are not limited to, changes in the following: client claims practices; the frequency of client company claim reviews; policy
terms and coverage (such as loss retention levels and occurrence and aggregate policy limits); loss trends, and legal trends that result in unanticipated losses. Collectively, these factors influence our selections of expected loss emergence
patterns.      Once the IBNR liabilities are determined, we estimate the expected case loss emergence for the upcoming calendar
year, based on the prior  year-end  expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios. We allocate the expected losses into interim estimates, which we compare to actual reported losses. This comparison
provides a test of the adequacy of prior  year-end  IBNR liabilities and forms the basis for possibly changing IBNR liability assumptions during the course of the year.   
  During 2016, we reduced net losses for prior years  occurrences by $280 million in the aggregate. This reduction produced a
corresponding increase in  pre-tax  earnings.      Reported claims for prior years 
property loss events were less than expected and we reduced our estimated ultimate liabilities by $157 million. However, property losses incurred during any given period may be more volatile because of the effect of catastrophe and large
individual property loss events.      In 2016, reported nominal losses for prior years  workers  compensation were less
than expected, which after reevaluating expected remaining IBNR estimates, resulted in a reduction of nominal liabilities by $165 million. However, we discount workers  compensation liabilities and after adjusting for changes in discounts,
workers  compensation losses for prior years  occurrences had a minimal impact on  pre-tax  earnings. An increase of ten percent in the tail of the expected loss emergence pattern and an increase of
ten percent in the expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in discounted workers  compensation IBNR liabilities of approximately $889 million, producing a corresponding decrease in  pre-tax 
earnings. We believe it is reasonably possible for these assumptions to increase at these rates.      Other casualty and general
liability reported losses (excluding mass tort losses) were less than expected in 2016, resulting in a $205 million increase in  pre-tax  earnings. However, casualty losses tend to be long-tailed and it
should not be assumed that favorable loss experience in a given period will continue in the future. For our significant casualty and general liability cells, we estimate that an increase of five percent in the claim-tails of the expected loss
emergence patterns and a five percent increase in expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in our nominal IBNR liabilities and a corresponding reduction in  pre-tax  earnings of approximately
$900 million. While we believe it is reasonably possible for these assumptions to increase at these rates, more likely outcomes are less than $900 million given the diversification in worldwide business.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Property and casualty losses    (Continued)
           General Re (Continued)    
   
   Overall industry-wide loss experience data and informed judgment are used when internal
loss data is of limited reliability, such as for mass tort, asbestos and hazardous waste (collectively,  mass tort ) liability estimates. General Re s net liability for such losses at December 31, 2016, was approximately
$1.2 billion, which included an increase in estimated ultimate losses of $98 million during 2016, which produced a corresponding reduction in  pre-tax  earnings. Mass tort loss estimations are
difficult to determine due to the changing legal environment, and increases may be required in the future if new exposures or claimants are identified, new claims are reported or new theories of liability emerge. In addition to the previously
described methodologies, we consider  survival ratios , which is the average net claim payments in recent years in relation to net unpaid losses, as a rough guide to reserve adequacy. General Re s survival ratio was approximately 15
years as of December 31, 2016.       BHRG       A summary of BHRG s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2016 follows (in millions).       
    We use a variety of actuarial methodologies to establish unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses.
Certain methodologies, such as paid and incurred loss development techniques, incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques and frequency and severity techniques, are utilized, as well as  ground-up 
techniques when appropriate.      A large percentage of BHRG s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses derive from
retroactive reinsurance contracts, which relate to loss events occurring before the contract inception date. Gross liabilities with respect to such contracts were approximately $24.7 billion at December 31, 2016, and were predominately for
casualty and liability coverages. We expect the claim-tail related to certain of these contracts to be very long.      We
establish aggregate liability estimates by individual contract, considering exposure and development trends. In establishing retroactive reinsurance liabilities, we often analyze historical aggregate loss payment patterns and project expected losses
under various scenarios. We assign judgmental probability factors to these scenarios and an expected outcome is determined. We then monitor loss payment activity and review ceding company reports and other information concerning the underlying
losses, and we  re-estimate  expected ultimate losses when significant events are reported or revealed.      Certain of our contracts include significant exposures to asbestos, environmental and other latent injury claims. We estimate that our liabilities for such claims were approximately $13.7 billion at
December 31, 2016. We do not receive consistently reliable information regarding asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims data from all ceding companies, particularly with respect to multi-line or aggregate   excess-of-loss   policies. Periodically, we conduct a detailed analysis of the underlying loss data to make an estimate of ultimate reinsured losses. When detailed loss
information is unavailable, we develop estimates by applying recent industry trends and projections to aggregate client data. Judgments in these areas necessarily consider the stability of the legal and regulatory environment under which we expect
these claims will be adjudicated. Legal reform and legislation could also have a significant impact on our ultimate liabilities.      Changes in ultimate estimated liabilities for prior years  retroactive reinsurance contracts were relatively insignificant in 2016, as were changes in the estimated timing and amount of remaining
unpaid losses. In 2016, we paid losses and loss adjustment expenses of approximately $1.1 billion with respect to these contracts.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Property and casualty losses    (Continued)
           BHRG (Continued)    
   
   We currently believe that maximum losses payable under our retroactive policies will not
exceed $40 billion due to the aggregate contract limits that are applicable to most of these contracts. Absent significant judicial or legislative changes affecting asbestos, environmental or latent injury exposures, we also currently believe
it unlikely that losses will develop upward to the maximum loss payable or downward by more than 15% of our  year-end  estimate.      We also record deferred charges with respect to our retroactive reinsurance contracts, which at contract inception represents the excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate liability for unpaid losses over
premiums. Unamortized deferred charges were approximately $8.0 billion at December 31, 2016, which will be amortized and charged to  pre-tax  earnings in the future based on the expected timing and
amount of loss payments. Significant changes in such estimates may have a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization. Based on the contracts in effect as of December 31, 2016, and the new AIG
contract we currently estimate that amortization expense in 2017 will approximate $950 million.      Gross unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expense liabilities related to property and casualty contracts, other than retroactive reinsurance, were approximately $11.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 and consisted primarily of traditional property and casualty
coverages written primarily under   excess-of-loss   and quota-share treaties. These coverages included catastrophe and aviation contracts that tend to generate low
frequency/high severity losses, although such liabilities have diminished in recent years due to declines in business written. Reserving techniques for catastrophe and individual risk contracts generally rely more on a
 per-policy  assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual loss event rather than with an analysis of the historical development patterns of past losses.   
  We generally establish liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustments expenses for these contracts based upon loss estimates reported
by ceding companies and IBNR reserves that are primarily a function of reported losses from ceding companies and anticipated loss ratios established on a portfolio basis, supplemented by management s estimates of the impact of major catastrophe
events as they become known. In 2016, we decreased estimated ultimate losses for prior years  occurrences by approximately $585 million, which primarily derived from lower than expected losses reported by ceding companies. The decrease
produced a corresponding increase in  pre-tax  earnings.        Derivative contract
liabilities        We measure derivative contract liabilities at fair value. Our most significant derivative contract
exposures relate to equity index put option contracts written between 2004 and 2008. We believe that the fair values produced for long-duration options are inherently subjective. Actual values in an exchange may differ significantly from the values
produced by any mathematical model, as transaction values may also reflect perceptions of individual buyers and sellers as well as other changes in market conditions.      We determine the fair value of equity index put option contracts using a Black-Scholes based option valuation model. Inputs to the model include the current index value, strike price, interest rate,
dividend rate and contract expiration date. The weighted average interest and dividend rates used as of December 31, 2016 were 1.2% and 3.3%, respectively. The interest rates were approximately 57 basis points (on a weighted average basis) over
benchmark interest rates at the end of 2016 and represented our estimate of our nonperformance risk. We believe that the most significant economic risks under these contracts relate to changes in the index value component and, to a lesser degree,
the foreign currency component.      The Black-Scholes based model also incorporates volatility estimates that measure potential
price changes over time. Our contracts have an average remaining maturity of about four years. The weighted average volatility used as of December 31, 2016 was approximately 20.2%. We determine the weighted average volatilities based on the
volatility input for each contract weighted by the contract s notional value. The volatility input for each contract reflects our expectation of future price volatility. The potential impact from changes in our volatility assumptions are as
follows. (Dollars in millions).       
 
         57   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      
     
     Other Critical Accounting Policies     
  Our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016 included goodwill of acquired businesses of $79.5 billion. We evaluate
goodwill for impairment at least annually and we conducted our most recent annual review during the fourth quarter of 2016. Our review includes determining the estimated fair values of our reporting units. There are several methods of estimating a
reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, underlying asset and liability fair value determinations and other valuation techniques, such as discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. We
primarily use discounted projected future earnings or cash flow methods. The key assumptions and inputs used in such methods may include forecasting revenues and expenses, operating cash flows and capital expenditures, as well as an appropriate
discount rate and other inputs. A significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and in performing goodwill impairment tests. Due to the inherent uncertainty in forecasting cash flows and earnings, actual
results may vary significantly from the forecasts. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then, as required by GAAP, we estimate the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of
the reporting unit. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the estimated fair value of its net assets establishes the implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over the implied goodwill value
is charged to earnings as an impairment loss.       Market Risk Disclosures    
  Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include substantial amounts of assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks. Our
significant market risks are primarily associated with equity prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The fair values of our investment portfolios and equity index put option contracts remain subject to
considerable volatility. The following sections address the significant market risks associated with our business activities.   
    Equity Price Risk        Historically, equity securities have represented a significant portion of our investment portfolio. Strategically, we strive to invest in businesses that possess excellent economics and able and honest
management and at sensible prices, and we prefer to invest a meaningful amount in each investee. Consequently, equity investments are concentrated in relatively few issuers. At December 31, 2016, approximately 60% of the total fair value of
equity securities and other investments was concentrated in five issuers.      We often hold our equity investments for long
periods and short-term price volatility has and will occur. We are not necessarily disturbed by market price declines provided the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of the investees remain favorable. We strive to maintain
significant levels of shareholder capital and ample liquidity to provide a margin of safety against short-term price volatility.      Market prices for equity securities are subject to fluctuation and consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value.
Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions.   
  We are also subject to equity price risk with respect to our equity index put option contracts. While our ultimate liability with respect
to these contracts is determined from the movement of the underlying stock index between the contract inception date and expiration date, fair values of these contracts are also affected by changes in other factors such as interest rates, expected
dividend rates and the remaining duration of the contract.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Equity Price Risk    (Continued)        
   
   The following table summarizes our equity securities and other investments and
derivative contract liabilities with significant equity price risk as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. We also show the effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those dates. The selected 30% hypothetical
changes does not reflect the best or worst case scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in our equity investment portfolio. Dollar amounts are in millions.

(1)  
    
     Excludes other investments that do not possess significant equity price risk.       
    Interest Rate Risk        We regularly invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive instruments. Our strategy is to acquire securities that are attractively priced relative to the perceived credit risk. Our management
recognizes and accepts that losses may occur. We also issue debt in the ordinary course of business to fund business operations, business acquisitions and for other general purposes. We strive to maintain high credit ratings so as to minimize the
cost of our debt. We rarely utilize derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risks.      The fair
values of our fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market interest rates. In addition, changes in interest rate assumptions used in our equity index put option contract models
cause changes in reported liabilities with respect to those contracts. Increases and decreases in interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate
sensitive instruments may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. The fair values of fixed interest rate
instruments are usually more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate instruments.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      

Interest Rate Risk    (Continued)        
   
   The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical changes in interest
rates on our significant assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk. We assumed that the interest rate changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest rate risk, and that there are no
significant changes to other factors used to determine the value of the instrument. The hypothetical changes in interest rates do not reflect the best or worst case scenarios. Variations in interest rates could produce significant changes in the
timing of repayments due to prepayment options available to the issuer. For these reasons, actual results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.   

(1)  
    
     Excludes other investments that are not subject to a significant level of interest rate risk.       
    Foreign Currency Risk        Certain of our subsidiaries operate in foreign jurisdictions and we transact business in foreign currencies. In addition, we hold investments in common stocks of major multinational companies, such as The
Coca-Cola Company, who have significant foreign business and foreign currency risk of their own. We generally do not attempt to match assets and liabilities by currency and do not use derivative contracts to hedge or manage foreign currency price
changes in any meaningful way. Our net assets subject to financial statement translation into U.S. Dollars are primarily in our insurance, utilities and energy and certain manufacturing and services subsidiaries. This translation related impact may
be offset by gains or losses related to net liabilities of Berkshire and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries that are denominated in foreign currencies, including gains and losses from the remeasurement of such liabilities due to changes in exchange
rates.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   (Continued)      
     
     Commodity Price Risk     
  Our subsidiaries use commodities in various ways in manufacturing and providing services. As such, we are subject to price risks related
to various commodities. In most instances, we attempt to manage these risks through the pricing of our products and services to customers. To the extent that we are unable to sustain price increases in response to commodity price increases, our
operating results will likely be adversely affected. We utilize derivative contracts to manage commodity price risks at BHE.   
  BHE s exposures to commodities include variations in the price of fuel required to generate electricity, wholesale electricity
purchased and sold and natural gas supply for customers. Commodity prices are subject to wide price swings as supply and demand are impacted by, among many other unpredictable items, weather, market liquidity, generating facility availability,
customer usage, storage and transmission and transportation constraints.      To mitigate a portion of the price volatility, BHE
uses derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, options, swaps and other agreements, to effectively secure future supply or sell future production generally at fixed prices. The settled cost of these contracts is generally recoverable from
customers in regulated rates. Financial results would be negatively impacted if the costs of wholesale electricity, fuel or natural gas are greater than what is permitted to be recovered in rates. The table that follows summarizes commodity price
risk on energy derivative contracts of BHE as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 10% increase and a 10% decrease in forward market prices by the expected volumes for these contracts as of each date. The
selected hypothetical change does not reflect the best or worst case scenarios. Dollars are in millions.       
     FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS    
  Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document as well as some statements in periodic press releases and some
oral statements of Berkshire officials during presentations about Berkshire or its subsidiaries are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Act ).
Forward-looking statements include statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, which include words such as  expects,   anticipates,   intends, 
 plans,   believes,   estimates  or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or
prospects and possible future Berkshire actions, which may be provided by management, are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are
subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about Berkshire and its subsidiaries, economic and market factors and the industries in which we do business, among other things. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and we have
no specific intention to update these statements.      Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or
forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The important risk factors that could cause our actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, changes in market prices of our investments in fixed maturity and equity securities, losses realized from derivative contracts, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane, act of terrorism or
cyber attack that causes losses insured by our insurance subsidiaries and/or losses to our business operations, changes in laws or regulations affecting our insurance, railroad, utilities and energy and finance subsidiaries, changes in federal
income tax laws, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or the industries in which we do business.   
     
         61   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         See  Market Risk Disclosures  contained in Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    
   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Rule  13a-15(f).  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule  13a-15(c).  In making this assessment, we used the criteria set
forth in the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  (2013), our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2016.      The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016 has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated in their report which appears on page 63.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      February 24, 2017   
         62   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data            REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2016. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework
(2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on the criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP      Omaha, Nebraska   
  February 24, 2017   
         63   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (dollars in millions)    

See
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

         64   

Table of Contents  

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (dollars in millions)    

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         65   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS        (dollars in millions except  per-share  amounts)        
     
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         66   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    
   (dollars in millions)        
       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY
       (dollars in millions)        
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         67   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (dollars in millions)
       
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         68   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        December 31, 2016

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices          

(a)   
   Nature of operations and basis of consolidation         Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities, including insurance and reinsurance, freight rail
transportation, utilities and energy, manufacturing, service, retailing and finance. In these notes the terms  us,   we,  or  our  refer to Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries. Further information regarding our
reportable business segments is contained in Note 23. Significant business acquisitions completed over the past three years are discussed in Note 2.      The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Berkshire consolidated with the accounts of all subsidiaries and affiliates in which we hold a controlling financial interest as
of the financial statement date. Normally a controlling financial interest reflects ownership of a majority of the voting interests. We consolidate a variable interest entity ( VIE ) when we possess both the power to direct the activities
of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance and we are either obligated to absorb the losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE or we hold the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be
significant to the VIE.      Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

(b)   
   Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements         The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ( GAAP ) requires us to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. In particular, estimates of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and
related reinsurance recoverable are subject to considerable estimation error due to the inherent uncertainty in projecting ultimate claim costs. In addition, estimates and assumptions associated with the amortization of deferred charges on
retroactive reinsurance contracts, determinations of fair values of certain financial instruments and evaluations of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets for impairment require considerable judgment. Actual results may differ from the
estimates used in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(c)   
   Cash and cash equivalents and U.S Treasury Bills         Cash equivalents consist of demand deposit and money market accounts, U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of three months or less when purchased and other investments with a maturity of three months or
less when purchased. During 2016, we acquired significant amounts of U.S. Treasury Bills with maturity dates more than three months from their purchase dates. In prior years, such investments were not material and were classified as cash
equivalents. We believe that in substance these U.S. Treasury Bills are like cash as they are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present an insignificant risk of change in value because of changes in interest rates. In determining the
appropriate accounting classification under GAAP, we considered the relevant accounting literature. We also consulted with our independent auditors who shared with us certain insights into commonly applied practice today. We have concluded that,
notwithstanding our view of the substance of such instruments, these U.S. Treasury Bills technically do not meet a  bright line  definition of cash equivalents under GAAP. Accordingly, we are now presenting all U.S. Treasury Bills with
maturity dates greater than three months from their purchase dates separately in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, we have revised the 2014 and 2015 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows to reflect this change. We believe
that these changes have no effect whatsoever on our financial condition.       

(d)   
   Investments         We determine
the appropriate classification of investments in fixed maturity and equity securities at the acquisition date and  re-evaluate  the classification at each balance sheet date.   Held-to-maturity   investments are carried at amortized cost, reflecting the ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity. Trading investments are securities acquired with the intent to sell in the
near term and are carried at fair value. All other securities are classified as   available-for-sale   and are carried at fair value with net unrealized gains or losses
reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Substantially all of our investments in equity and fixed maturity securities are classified as
  available-for-sale.        We utilize the equity
method to account for investments when we possess the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the operating and financial policies of the investee. The ability to exercise significant influence is presumed when an investor
possesses more than 20% of the voting interests of the investee. This presumption may be   
         69   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(d)   
   Investments (Continued)          
   
overcome based on specific facts and circumstances that demonstrate that the ability to exercise significant influence is restricted. We apply the equity method to investments in common stock and
to other investments when such other investments possess substantially identical subordinated interests to common stock.      In
applying the equity method, we record the investment at cost and subsequently increase or decrease the carrying amount of the investment by our proportionate share of the net earnings or losses and other comprehensive income of the investee. We
record dividends or other equity distributions as reductions in the carrying value of the investment. In the event that net losses of the investee reduce the carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the
investee are  at-risk,  even if we have not committed to provide financial support to the investee. Such additional equity method losses, if any, are based upon the change in our claim on the investee s
book value.      Investment gains and losses arise when investments are sold (as determined on a specific identification basis) or
are other-than-temporarily impaired. If a decline in the value of an investment below cost is deemed other than temporary, the cost of the investment is written down to fair value, with a corresponding charge to earnings. Factors considered in
determining whether an impairment is other than temporary include: the financial condition, business prospects and creditworthiness of the issuer, the relative amount of the decline, our ability and intent to hold the investment until the fair value
recovers and the length of time that fair value has been less than cost. With respect to an investment in a fixed maturity security, we recognize an other-than-temporary impairment if we (a) intend to sell or expect to be required to sell the
security before its amortized cost is recovered or (b) do not expect to ultimately recover the amortized cost basis even if we do not intend to sell the security. Under scenario (a), we recognize losses in earnings and under scenario (b), we
recognize the credit loss component in earnings and the difference between fair value and the amortized cost basis net of the credit loss in other comprehensive income.   

(e)   
   Receivables, loans and finance receivables         Receivables of the insurance and other businesses are stated net of estimated allowances for uncollectible balances. Allowances for uncollectible balances are provided when it is probable counterparties
or customers will be unable to pay all amounts due based on the contractual terms. Receivables are generally written off against allowances after all reasonable collection efforts are exhausted.   
  Loans and finance receivables of the finance and financial products businesses are predominantly manufactured housing installment loans.
These loans are stated at amortized cost based on our ability and intent to hold such loans to maturity and are stated net of allowances for uncollectible accounts. The carrying value of acquired loans represents acquisition costs, plus or minus
origination and commitment costs paid or fees received, which together with acquisition premiums or discounts, are deferred and amortized as yield adjustments over the life of the loans. Substantially all loans are secured by real or personal
property or other assets of the borrower.      Allowances for credit losses on loans include estimates of losses on loans currently
in foreclosure and losses on loans not currently in foreclosure. Estimates of losses on loans in foreclosure are based on historical experience and collateral recovery rates. Estimates of losses on loans not currently in foreclosure consider
historical default rates, collateral recovery rates and prevailing economic conditions. Allowances for credit losses also incorporate the historical average time elapsed from the last payment until foreclosure.   
  Loans are considered delinquent when payments are more than 30 days past due. Loans over 90 days past due are placed on nonaccrual status
and accrued but uncollected interest is reversed. Subsequent collections on the loans are first applied to the principal and interest owed for the most delinquent amount. Interest income accruals resume once a loan is less than 90 days delinquent.
     Loans in the foreclosure process are considered  non-performing.  Once a loan is in
foreclosure, interest income is not recognized unless the foreclosure is cured or the loan is modified. Once a modification is complete, interest income is recognized based on the terms of the new loan. Foreclosed loans are charged off when the
collateral is sold. Loans not in foreclosure are evaluated for charge off based on individual circumstances concerning the future collectability of the loan and the condition of the collateral securing the loan.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(f)   
   Derivatives         We carry
derivative contracts in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value, net of reductions permitted under master netting agreements with counterparties. The changes in fair value of derivative contracts that do not qualify as hedging instruments for
financial reporting purposes are recorded in earnings or by our regulated utilities businesses as regulatory assets or liabilities when recovery through regulated rates is probable.   

(g)   
   Fair value measurements      
  As defined under GAAP, fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market
participants in the principal market or in the most advantageous market when no principal market exists. Adjustments to transaction prices or quoted market prices may be required in illiquid or disorderly markets in order to estimate fair value.
Alternative valuation techniques may be appropriate under the circumstances to determine the value that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction. Market participants are assumed to be independent,
knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange and not acting under duress. Our nonperformance or credit risk is considered in determining the fair value of liabilities. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used
to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, estimates of fair value presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or future market exchange.   

(h)   
   Inventories         Inventories
consist of manufactured goods and goods acquired for resale. Manufactured inventory costs include raw materials, direct and indirect labor and factory overhead. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. As of December 31, 2016,
approximately 55% of our consolidated inventory cost was determined using the    last-in-first-out    ( LIFO ) method, 28%
using the    first-in-first-out    ( FIFO ) method, and the remainder primarily using the average cost method. The difference
between costs determined under LIFO and current costs was not significant as of December 31, 2016.       

(i)   
   Property, plant and equipment and leased assets         Additions to property, plant and equipment used in operations and leased assets are recorded at cost and consist of major additions, improvements and betterments. With respect to constructed assets, all
construction related material, direct labor and contract services as well as certain indirect costs are capitalized. Indirect costs include interest over the construction period. With respect to constructed assets of our regulated utility and energy
subsidiaries that are subject to authoritative guidance for regulated operations, capitalized costs also include an equity allowance for funds used during construction, which represents the cost of equity funds used to finance the construction of
the regulated facilities. Also see Note 1(q).      Normal repairs and maintenance and other costs that do not improve the property,
extend the useful life or otherwise do not meet capitalization criteria are charged to expense as incurred. Rail grinding costs related to our railroad properties are expensed as incurred.   
  Property, plant and equipment and leased assets are depreciated to estimated salvage value primarily using the straight-line method over
estimated useful lives or mandated recovery periods as prescribed by regulatory authorities. Depreciation of assets of our regulated utilities and railroad is generally determined using group depreciation methods where rates are based on periodic
depreciation studies approved by the applicable regulator. Under group depreciation, a single depreciation rate is applied to the gross investment in a particular class of property, despite differences in the service life or salvage value of
individual property units within the same class. When our regulated utilities or railroad retires or sells a component of the assets accounted for using group depreciation methods, no gain or loss is recognized. Gains or losses on disposals of all
other assets are recorded through earnings.      We evaluate property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable or when the assets are held for sale. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, we assess whether the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the use of
the asset and the residual value from the ultimate disposal of the asset exceeds the carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amounts, we reduce the carrying value to fair value and record an impairment loss in
earnings, except with respect to impairment of assets of our regulated utility and energy subsidiaries when the impacts of regulation are considered in evaluating the carrying value of regulated assets.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(j)   
   Goodwill and other intangible assets         Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition price of a business over the fair value of identified net assets of that business. We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually. When evaluating
goodwill for impairment, we estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. There are several methods that may be used to estimate a reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation
techniques, including, but not limited to, discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then the identifiable
assets and liabilities of the reporting unit are estimated at fair value as of the current testing date. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the current estimated fair value of net assets establishes the implied value
of goodwill. The excess of the recorded goodwill over the implied goodwill value is charged to earnings as an impairment loss. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit and performing goodwill impairment
tests.      Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized based on the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits are
expected to be consumed or on a straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives. Intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment at least annually and when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the asset is impaired.   

(k)   
   Revenue recognition      
  Insurance premiums for prospective property/casualty insurance and reinsurance are earned over the loss exposure or coverage period in
proportion to the level of protection provided. In most cases, premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over the term of the contract with unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily  pro-rata  basis.
Premiums for retroactive property/casualty reinsurance policies are earned at the inception of the contracts, as all of the underlying loss events covered by these policies occurred in the past. Premiums for life reinsurance and annuity contracts
are earned when due. Premiums earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. For contracts containing experience rating provisions, premiums earned reflect estimated loss experience under contracts.   
  Sales revenues derive from the sales of manufactured products and goods acquired for resale. Revenues from sales are recognized upon
passage of title to the customer, which generally coincides with customer pickup, product delivery or acceptance, depending on terms of the sales arrangement.      Service revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Services provided pursuant to a contract are either recognized over the contract period or upon completion of the elements specified in the
contract depending on the terms of the contract. Revenues related to the sales of fractional ownership interests in aircraft are recognized ratably over the term of the related management services agreement, as the transfer of ownership interest in
the aircraft is inseparable from the management services agreement.      Leasing revenue is generally recognized ratably over the
term of the lease. A substantial portion of our leases are classified as operating leases.      Operating revenues from the
distribution and sale of electricity and natural gas to customers are recognized when the services are rendered or the energy is delivered. Revenues include unbilled as well as billed amounts. Rates charged are generally subject to federal and state
regulation or established under contractual arrangements. When preliminary rates are permitted to be billed prior to final approval by the applicable regulator, certain revenue collected may be subject to refund and a liability for estimated refunds
is recorded.      Railroad transportation revenues are recognized based upon the proportion of service provided as of the balance
sheet date. Customer incentives, which are primarily provided for shipping a specified cumulative volume or shipping to/from specific locations, are recorded as  pro-rata  reductions to revenue based on actual
or projected future customer shipments. When using projected shipments, we rely on historic trends as well as economic and other indicators to estimate the recorded liability for customer incentives.   

(l)   
   Losses and loss adjustment expenses         Liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses are established under property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts issued by our insurance subsidiaries for loss events that have occurred as
of the balance sheet date. The liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses are recorded at the estimated ultimate payment amounts, except that   
         72   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(l)   
   Losses and loss adjustment expenses (Continued)          
   
amounts arising from certain workers  compensation reinsurance contracts are discounted. Estimated ultimate payment amounts are based upon (1) reports of losses from policyholders,
(2) individual case estimates and (3) estimates of incurred but not reported losses.      Provisions for losses and loss
adjustment expenses are charged to earnings after deducting amounts recovered and estimates of recoverable amounts under ceded reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify
policyholders with respect to the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.      The estimated liabilities of workers 
compensation claims assumed under certain reinsurance contracts are discounted based upon an annual discount rate of 4.5% for claims arising prior to January 1, 2003 and 1% for claims arising thereafter, consistent with insurance statutory
accounting principles. The change in such discounts, including the periodic discount accretion is included in earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.   

(m)   
   Deferred charges reinsurance assumed         The excess, if any, of the estimated ultimate liabilities for claims and claim settlement costs over the premiums earned with respect to retroactive property/casualty reinsurance contracts is recorded as
a deferred charge at inception of the contract. Deferred charges are subsequently amortized using the interest method over the expected claim settlement periods. Changes to the estimated timing or amount of future loss payments also produce changes
in unamortized deferred charges. Changes in such estimates are applied retrospectively and the resulting changes in deferred charge balances are included in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses in the period of the change.   

(n)   
   Insurance policy acquisition costs         Incremental costs that are directly related to the successful acquisition of insurance contracts are capitalized, subject to ultimate recoverability, and are subsequently amortized to underwriting
expenses as the related premiums are earned. Direct incremental acquisition costs include commissions, premium taxes, and certain other costs associated with successful efforts. All other underwriting costs are expensed as incurred. The
recoverability of capitalized insurance policy acquisition costs generally reflects anticipation of investment income. The unamortized balances are included in other assets and were $1,991 million and $1,920 million at December 31,
2016 and 2015, respectively.       

(p)   
   Life and annuity insurance benefits         Liabilities for insurance benefits under life contracts are computed based upon estimated future investment yields, expected mortality, morbidity, and lapse or withdrawal rates and reflect estimates for
future premiums and expenses under the contracts. These assumptions, as applicable, also include a margin for adverse deviation and may vary with the characteristics of the contract s date of issuance, policy duration and country of risk. The
interest rate assumptions used may vary by contract or jurisdiction. Periodic payment annuity liabilities are discounted based on the implicit rate as of the inception of the contracts such that the present value of the liabilities equals the
premiums. Discount rates range from less than 1% to 7%.       

(q)   
   Regulated utilities and energy businesses         Certain energy subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in accordance with authoritative guidance for regulated operations, reflecting the economic effects of regulation from the ability to recover
certain costs from customers and the requirement to return revenues to customers in the future through the regulated rate-setting process. Accordingly, certain costs are deferred as regulatory assets and certain income is accrued as regulatory
liabilities. Regulatory assets and liabilities will be amortized into operating expenses and revenues over various future periods.      Regulatory assets and liabilities are continually assessed for probable future inclusion in regulatory rates by considering factors such as applicable regulatory or legislative changes and recent rate
orders received by other regulated entities. If future inclusion in regulatory rates ceases to be probable, the amount no longer probable of inclusion in regulatory rates is charged or credited to earnings (or other comprehensive income, if
applicable) or returned to customers.       

(r)   
   Foreign currency         The
accounts of our  non-U.S.  based subsidiaries are measured, in most instances, using functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Revenues and expenses of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
Dollars at the average exchange rate for the period and assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of the reporting   
         73   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(r)   
   Foreign currency (Continued)          
   
period. Gains or losses from translating the financial statements of these subsidiaries are included in shareholders  equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains
and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the reporting entity, including gains and losses from the remeasurement of assets and liabilities due to changes in exchange rates, are included in
earnings.       

(s)   
   Income taxes         Berkshire
files a consolidated federal income tax return in the United States, which includes eligible subsidiaries. In addition, we file income tax returns in state, local and foreign jurisdictions as applicable. Provisions for current income tax liabilities
are calculated and accrued on income and expense amounts expected to be included in the income tax returns for the current year. Income taxes reported in earnings also include deferred income tax provisions.   
  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed on differences between the financial statement bases and tax bases of assets and
liabilities at the enacted tax rates. Changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities that are associated with components of other comprehensive income are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in
deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included as a component of income tax expense. The effect on deferred income tax assets and liabilities attributable to changes in enacted tax rates are charged or credited to income tax expense in the
period of enactment. Valuation allowances are established for certain deferred tax assets when realization is not likely.   
  Assets and liabilities are established for uncertain tax positions taken or positions expected to be taken in income tax returns when such
positions, in our judgment, do not meet a   more-likely-than-not   threshold based on the technical merits of the positions. Estimated interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are
included as a component of income tax expense.       

(t)   
   New accounting pronouncements to be adopted subsequent to December 31, 2016      
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU  2014-09   Revenue from Contracts with Customers.  ASU  2014-09  applies to contracts with customers, excluding, most notably, insurance and leasing contracts. ASU  2014-09  prescribes a framework in accounting for revenues from
contracts within its scope, including (a) identifying the contract, (b) identifying the performance obligations under the contract, (c) determining the transaction price, (d) allocating the transaction price to the identified
performance obligations and (e) recognizing revenues as the identified performance obligations are satisfied. ASU  2014-09  also prescribes additional financial statement presentations and disclosures. We
currently expect to adopt ASU  2014-09  as of January 1, 2018, under the modified retrospective method where the cumulative effect is recognized at the date of initial application. Our evaluation of ASU  2014-09  is ongoing and not complete. The FASB has issued and may issue in the future, interpretative guidance, which may cause our evaluation to change. While we anticipate some changes to revenue recognition for
certain customer contracts, we do not currently believe the adoption of ASU  2014-09  will have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU  2016-01   Financial Instruments Recognition and
Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  ASU  2016-01  generally requires that equity investments (excluding equity method investments) be measured at fair value with changes in fair
value recognized in net income. Under existing GAAP, changes in fair value of   available-for-sale   equity investments are recorded in other comprehensive income. Given the
current magnitude of our equity investments, the adoption of ASU  2016-01  will likely have a significant impact on the periodic net earnings reported in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings, although it will
not significantly impact our comprehensive income or shareholders  equity. ASU  2016-01  is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with the cumulative effect of the adoption
made to the balance sheet as of the date of adoption. Thus, the adoption will result in a reclassification of the related accumulated unrealized appreciation currently included in accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings, with no
impact on Berkshire s shareholders  equity.      In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU
 2016-02   Leases.  ASU  2016-02  requires a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments and a   right-of-use   asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, along with additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures. ASU  2016-02  is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect this standard will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(t)   
   New accounting pronouncements to be adopted subsequent to December 31, 2016 (Continued)      
   
   In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU  2016-13 
 Financial Instruments Credit Losses,  which provides for the recognition and measurement at the reporting date of all expected credit losses for financial assets held at amortized cost and   available-for-sale   debt securities. Currently credit losses are recognized and measured when such losses become probable based on the prevailing facts and circumstances. ASU
 2016-13  is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019. We are currently evaluating the effect this standard will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU  2017-04   Simplifying the Test for Goodwill
Impairment.  ASU  2017-04  eliminates the requirement to determine implied goodwill in measuring an impairment loss. Upon adoption, a goodwill impairment will be measured as the excess of the reporting
unit s carrying value over fair value, limited to the amount of goodwill. ASU  2017-04  is effective for goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 and early adoption
is permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect this standard will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions         Our long-held acquisition strategy is to acquire businesses at sensible prices that have consistent earning power, good returns on equity and able and honest management. Financial results attributable to
business acquisitions are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on their respective acquisition dates.   
  On January 29, 2016, Berkshire acquired all outstanding common stock of Precision Castparts Corp. ( PCC ) for $235 per
share in cash pursuant to a definitive merger agreement dated August 8, 2015. The aggregate consideration paid was approximately $32.7 billion, which included the value of PCC shares we already owned. We funded the acquisition with a
combination of existing cash balances and proceeds from a short-term credit facility. PCC is a worldwide, diversified manufacturer of complex metal components and products. It serves the aerospace, power and general industrial markets. PCC is a
market leader in manufacturing complex structural investment castings and forged components for aerospace markets, machined airframe components and highly engineered critical fasteners for aerospace applications, and in manufacturing airfoil
castings for the aerospace and industrial gas turbine markets. PCC also is a leading producer of titanium and nickel superalloy melted and mill products for the aerospace, chemical processing, oil and gas and pollution control industries, and
manufactures extruded seamless pipe, fittings and forgings for power generation and oil and gas applications.      On
February 29, 2016, we acquired the Duracell business from The Procter   Gamble Company ( P G ) pursuant to a definitive agreement entered into in November 2014. Duracell is a leading manufacturer of high-performance
alkaline batteries and is an innovator in wireless charging technologies. Pursuant to the agreement, we received a recapitalized Duracell Company in exchange for shares of P G common stock held by Berkshire subsidiaries, which had a fair value
of approximately $4.2 billion.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions   (Continued)            
   During the fourth quarter of 2016, we revised the previously reported acquisition date
fair values of certain identified assets and liabilities of PCC and Duracell, which primarily resulted in decreases in the amounts of identified intangible assets and deferred income tax liabilities, offset by increases in the amounts of goodwill.
These revisions were immaterial to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill from these acquisitions is not amortizable for income tax purposes. The fair values of identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed and residual goodwill of PCC
and Duracell at their respective acquisition dates are summarized as follows (in millions).       
    The following table sets forth certain unaudited pro forma consolidated earnings data for the year ending
December 31, 2015 as if the PCC and Duracell acquisitions were consummated on the same terms at the beginning of 2015 (in millions, except per share amount). Pro forma data for 2016 was not materially different from the amounts reflected in the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.       
        In the first quarter of 2015, we
acquired the Van Tuyl Group (now named Berkshire Hathaway Automotive), which included 81 automotive dealerships and two related insurance businesses, two auto auctions and a distributor of automotive fluid maintenance products. In addition to
selling new and  pre-owned  automobiles, the Berkshire Hathaway Automotive group offers repair and other services and products, including extended warranty services and other automotive protection plans.
Consideration paid for the acquisition was $4.1 billion. On December 1, 2014, we acquired AltaLink, L.P. ( AltaLink ) for a cash purchase price of C$3.1 billion (approximately $2.7 billion). AltaLink is a regulated electric
transmission-only business, headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. The goodwill related to the AltaLink acquisition is not amortizable for income tax purposes, while substantially all of the goodwill related to Berkshire Hathaway Automotive is
amortizable for income tax purposes.      The fair values of identified assets acquired and liabilities assumed and residual
goodwill of Berkshire Hathaway Automotive and AltaLink at their respective acquisition dates are summarized as follows (in millions).   
         76   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions   (Continued)            

    On January 1, 2014, we acquired the beverage dispensing equipment manufacturing and merchandising
business of British engineering company, IMI plc for approximately $1.12 billion. On February 25, 2014, we acquired 100% of the outstanding common stock of Phillips Specialty Products Inc. ( PSPI ), a company providing oil flow
improvement products to customers worldwide, from Phillips 66 ( PSX ) in exchange for 17,422,615 shares of PSX common stock with an aggregate fair value of $1.35 billion. On June 30, 2014, we acquired WPLG, Inc.
( WPLG ) from Graham Holding Company ( GHC ) in exchange for 1,620,190 shares of GHC common stock with an aggregate fair value of $1.13 billion. WPLG operates a Miami, Florida, ABC affiliated television station. At their
respective acquisition dates, assets of PSPI and WPLG included cash of $778 million. WPLG assets also included 2,107 shares of Berkshire Hathaway Class A and 1,278 shares of Class B common stock. The aggregate fair value of the
identified net assets related to these acquisitions was approximately $2.2 billion and the residual goodwill was approximately $1.4 billion.      During the last three years, we also completed several  smaller-sized  business acquisitions, primarily   bolt-on  
acquisitions by our existing business operations. Aggregate consideration paid for these other business acquisitions was approximately $1.4 billion in 2016, $1.1 billion in 2015 and $1.8 billion in 2014. We do not believe that these
acquisitions were material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(3)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities         Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are summarized by type below (in millions).   

77   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(3)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities   (Continued)        
   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities are reflected in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets as follows (in millions).       
    Investments in foreign government securities include securities issued by national and provincial
government entities as well as instruments that are unconditionally guaranteed by such entities. As of December 31, 2016, approximately 92% of foreign government holdings were rated AA or higher by at least one of the major rating agencies.
Approximately 81% of foreign government holdings were issued or guaranteed by the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia or Canada.   
  The amortized cost and estimated fair value of securities with fixed maturities at December 31, 2016 are summarized below by
contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to early call or prepayment rights held by issuers. Amounts are in millions.       

(4)   
   Investments in equity securities         Investments in equity securities as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are summarized based on the primary industry of the investee in the table below (in millions).   

*   
   Approximately 56% of the aggregate fair value was concentrated in the equity securities of four companies (American Express Company $11.2 billion; Wells
Fargo   Company $27.6 billion; International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) $13.5 billion; and The Coca-Cola Company $16.6 billion).      

*   
   Approximately 59% of the aggregate fair value was concentrated in the equity securities of four companies (American Express Company $10.5 billion; Wells
Fargo   Company $27.2 billion; IBM $11.2 billion; and The Coca-Cola Company $17.2 billion).         As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, we concluded that the unrealized losses shown in the tables above were temporary. Our conclusions were based on: (a) our ability and intent to hold the
securities to recovery; (b) our assessment that the   
         78   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(4)   
   Investments in equity securities   (Continued)            
   
underlying business and financial condition of each of these issuers was favorable; (c) our opinion that the relative price declines were not significant; and (d) our belief that market
prices will increase to and exceed our cost. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, unrealized losses on equity securities in a continuous unrealized loss position for more than twelve consecutive months were $551 million and $989 million,
respectively.      Investments in equity securities are reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (in millions).

*   
   Included in other assets.          

(5)   
   Other investments         Other
investments include preferred stock of Bank of America Corporation ( BAC ), warrants to purchase common stock of BAC and preferred stock of Restaurant Brands International, Inc. ( RBI ) and in 2015 also included preferred stock
of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company ( Wrigley ) and The Dow Chemical Company ( Dow ). Other investments are classified as   available-for-sale   and carried at
fair value and are shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (in millions).       
    In 2008, we purchased $2.1 billion of Wrigley preferred stock pursuant to a shareholder agreement in
conjunction with Mars Incorporated s ( Mars ) acquisition of Wrigley. Pursuant to certain put and call provisions in the shareholder agreement, up to 50% of our original investment was redeemable over a
 90-day  period scheduled to begin on October 6, 2016. In September 2016, pursuant to an agreement entered into in August 2016, Mars acquired all of our Wrigley preferred stock for approximately
$4.56 billion, which included a prorated dividend that would have otherwise been payable in October 2016.      In 2009, we
acquired 3,000,000 shares of Series A Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock of Dow ( Dow Preferred ) for approximately $3 billion. In December 2016, Dow exercised its option to convert the Dow Preferred into
72.6 million shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2016, all shares of common stock received upon the conversion had been sold. The Dow Preferred was entitled to dividends at a rate of 8.5% per annum.   
  We currently own 50,000 shares of 6%  Non-Cumulative  Perpetual Preferred Stock of BAC ( BAC
Preferred ) with a liquidation value of $100,000 per share and warrants to purchase 700,000,000 shares of common stock of BAC ( BAC Warrants ). The BAC Preferred is redeemable at the option of BAC beginning on May 7, 2019 at a
redemption price of $105,000 per share (or $5.25 billion in aggregate). The BAC Warrants expire in 2021 and are exercisable for an additional aggregate cost of $5 billion ($7.142857/share).   
  We currently own Class A 9% Cumulative Compounding Perpetual Preferred Shares of RBI ( RBI Preferred ) having a stated
value of $3 billion. RBI, domiciled in Canada, is the ultimate parent company of Burger King and Tim Hortons. The RBI Preferred is entitled to dividends on a cumulative basis of 9% per annum plus an additional amount, if necessary, to
produce an  after-tax  yield to Berkshire as if the dividends were paid by a U.S.-based company. The RBI Preferred is redeemable at the option of RBI beginning on December 12, 2017. If not redeemed prior to
December 12, 2024, we can cause RBI to redeem the RBI Preferred. In either case, the redemption price will be 109.9% of the stated value of such shares.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(6)   
   Investments in The Kraft Heinz Company         On June 7, 2013, Berkshire and an affiliate of the global investment firm 3G Capital (such affiliate,  3G ), each made equity investments in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz
Holding ), which, together with debt financing obtained by Heinz Holding, was used to acquire H. J. Heinz Company ( Heinz ). Berkshire s initial investments consisted of 425 million shares of Heinz Holding common stock;
warrants, which we exercised in June 2015, to acquire approximately 46 million additional shares of common stock at one cent per share; and cumulative compounding preferred stock ( Preferred Stock ) with a liquidation preference of
$8 billion. The aggregate cost of our investments was $12.25 billion. 3G also acquired 425 million shares of Heinz Holding common stock for $4.25 billion. On June 7, 2016, our Preferred Stock investment was redeemed for cash
of $8.32 billion. Prior to its redemption, the Preferred Stock was entitled to dividends at 9% per annum. Dividends earned on the Preferred Stock were $180 million in 2016, $852 million in 2015 and $720 million in 2014 and
are included in interest, dividends and other investment income.      On July 1, 2015, Berkshire acquired 262.9 million
shares of newly issued common stock of Heinz Holding for $5.26 billion and 3G acquired 237.1 million shares of newly issued common stock of Heinz Holding for $4.74 billion. Immediately thereafter, Heinz Holding executed a reverse
stock split at a rate of 0.443332 of a share for each share. As of that date, Berkshire owned 52.5% of Heinz Holding s outstanding common stock.      On July 2, 2015, Heinz Holding acquired Kraft Foods Group, Inc. ( Kraft ). Upon completion of the acquisition, Heinz Holding was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company ( Kraft Heinz ).
Kraft Heinz is one of the world s largest manufacturers and marketers of food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy products, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee, and other grocery products. Kraft
Heinz s leading brands include  Kraft, Heinz, ABC, Capri Sun, Classico,  Jell-O,   Kool-Aid,  Lunchables, Maxwell House,
 Ore-Ida,  Oscar Mayer, Philadelphia, Planters, Plasmon, Quero, Weight Watchers Smart Ones and Velveeta.       In connection with the acquisition of Kraft, its shareholders received one share of newly issued Kraft Heinz common stock for each share of Kraft common stock and a special cash dividend of $16.50 per
share. Following the issuance of these additional shares, Berkshire and 3G together owned approximately 51% of the outstanding Kraft Heinz common stock, with Berkshire owning approximately 26.8% and 3G owning 24.2%. We accounted for our investment
in Heinz Holding common stock and continue to account for our investment in Kraft Heinz common stock on the equity method. In applying the equity method, the investor treats an investee s issuance of shares as if the investor had sold a
proportionate share of its investment. As a result, we recorded a  non-cash   pre-tax  holding gain of approximately $6.8 billion in 2015, representing the excess of
the fair value of Kraft Heinz common stock at the date of the merger over the carrying value associated with the reduction in our ownership.      A summary of our investments in Kraft Heinz follows (in millions).       
    Our equity method earnings (losses) on the common stock were $923 million in 2016, $(122) million in
2015 and $(26) million in 2014. Common stock dividends received were $952 million in 2016 and $366 million in 2015.   
  Summarized consolidated financial information of Kraft Heinz follows (in millions).   

80   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(7)   
   Investment gains/losses      
  Investment gains/losses, including other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) losses, for each of the three years ending
December 31, 2016 are summarized below (in millions).       
    Gains from sales and redemptions of equity securities in 2016 included approximately $2.4 billion
from the disposition of our investment in Wrigley preferred stock, $610 million from the redemption of our investment in Kraft Heinz Preferred Stock, $1.2 billion upon the conversion of our investment in Dow Preferred and a  non-cash  holding gain of approximately $1.1 billion from the exchange of our P G common stock in the acquisition of Duracell. The  non-cash  gain from the
P G/Duracell exchange represented the excess of the fair value of net assets of Duracell over the cost basis of the P G stock exchanged.      Gains from sales and redemptions of equity securities in 2015 included a  non-cash  holding gain of approximately $6.8 billion in connection with our investment
in Kraft Heinz common stock (see Note 6). Gains from sales and redemptions of equity securities during 2014 included  non-cash  holding gains of approximately $2.1 billion from the exchange of Phillips 66
( PSX ) common stock in connection with the acquisition of Phillips Specialty Products Inc. (currently named LiquidPower Specialty Products Inc. ( LSPI )) and the exchange of Graham Holding Company ( GHC ) common stock
for WPLG, Inc. ( WPLG ). These holding gains represented the excess of the respective fair value of the net assets of LSPI and WPLG received over the respective cost basis of the PSX and GHC shares exchanged.   
  We record investments in equity and fixed maturity securities classified as   available-for-sale   at fair value and record the difference between fair value and cost in other comprehensive income. OTTI losses recognized in earnings represent reductions in the cost basis of the
investment, but not the fair value. Accordingly, such losses that are included in earnings are generally offset by a credit to other comprehensive income, producing no net effect on shareholders  equity as of the balance sheet date. In 2014, we
recorded an OTTI charge of $678 million related to our investment in equity securities of Tesco PLC.       

(8)   
   Inventories         Inventories
are comprised of the following (in millions).       
    Inventories at December 31, 2016 included approximately $3.5 billion related to PCC and
Duracell.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(9)   
   Receivables         Receivables
of insurance and other businesses are comprised of the following (in millions).       
    Trade and other receivables at December 31, 2016 included approximately $1.8 billion related to
PCC and Duracell.      Loans and finance receivables of finance and financial products businesses are summarized as follows (in
millions).       
    Loans and finance receivables are predominantly installment loans originated or acquired by our
manufactured housing business. Provisions for loan losses for 2016 and 2015 were $144 million and $148 million, respectively. Loan charge-offs, net of recoveries, were $144 million in 2016 and $177 million in 2015. At
December 31, 2016, approximately 98% of the loan balances were evaluated collectively for impairment. As part of the evaluation process, credit quality indicators are reviewed and loans are designated as performing or  non-performing.  At December 31, 2016, approximately 98% of the loan balances were determined to be performing and approximately 94% of the loan balances were current as to payment status.   

(10)   
   Property, plant and equipment and assets held for lease         A summary of property, plant and equipment of our insurance and other businesses follows (in millions).       
    Property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2016 included approximately $3.3 billion related
to PCC and Duracell.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(10)   
   Property, plant and equipment and assets held for lease   (Continued)        
   
   A summary of property, plant and equipment of our railroad and our utilities and energy
businesses follows (in millions).       
    The utility generation, transmission and distribution systems and interstate natural gas pipeline assets
are owned by regulated public utility and natural gas pipeline subsidiaries.      Assets held for lease and property, plant and
equipment of our finance and financial products businesses are summarized below (in millions).       
    Assets held for lease includes railcars, intermodal tank containers, cranes,   over-the-road   trailers, storage units and furniture. As of December 31, 2016, the minimum future lease rentals to be received on assets held for lease (including rail
cars leased from others) were as follows (in millions): 2017   $1,251; 2018   $992; 2019   $744; 2020   $543; 2021   $358; and thereafter   $525.      Depreciation expense for each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 is summarized below (in millions).       
 
         83   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(11)   
   Goodwill and other intangible assets         A reconciliation of the change in the carrying value of goodwill is as follows (in millions).       
    Other intangible assets are summarized as follows (in millions).   
   
    Amortization expense was $1,490 million in 2016, $1,106 million in 2015 and $1,155 million
in 2014. Estimated amortization expense over the next five years is as follows (in millions): 2017   $1,383; 2018   $1,349; 2019   $1,229; 2020   $1,131 and 2021   $1,042. Intangible assets with indefinite lives as of
December 31, 2016 and 2015 were $18,705 million and $2,964 million, respectively. Other intangible assets at December 31, 2016 included assets of PCC and Duracell of approximately $24.8 billion, which included approximately
$13.6 billion in customer relationships and $2.3 billion in trade names that were determined to have indefinite lives.       

(12)   
   Derivative contracts      
  Derivative contracts have been entered into primarily through our finance and financial products and our utilities and energy businesses.
A summary of the liabilities and related notional values of derivative contracts of our finance and financial products businesses follows (in millions).       

(1)  
    
     Represents the aggregate undiscounted amounts payable assuming that the value of each index is zero at each contract s expiration date. Certain
of these contracts are denominated in foreign currencies. Notional amounts are based on the foreign currency exchange rates as of each balance sheet date.       

(2)  
    
     In July 2016, our remaining credit default contract was terminated by mutual agreement with the counterparty. We no longer have any exposure to
losses under credit default contracts.          The derivative contract liabilities of our finance and financial
products businesses are recorded at fair value and the changes in the fair values of such contracts are reported in earnings as derivative gains/losses. We entered into these contracts   
         84   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(12)   
   Derivative contracts   (Continued)            
   
with the expectation that the premiums received would exceed the amounts ultimately paid to counterparties. A summary of the derivative gains/losses included in our Consolidated Statements of
Earnings in each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 follows (in millions).       
    The equity index put option contracts are European style options written between 2004 and 2008 on four
major equity indexes. These contracts expire between June 2018 and January 2026. Future payments, if any, under any given contract will be required if the prevailing index value is below the contract strike price at the expiration date. We received
the premiums on these contracts at the inception dates and therefore we have no counterparty credit risk.      The aggregate
intrinsic value (the undiscounted liability assuming the contracts are settled based on the index values and foreign currency exchange rates as of the balance sheet date) of our equity index put option contracts was approximately $1.0 billion
at December 31, 2016 and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2015. However, these contracts may not be unilaterally terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates. Therefore, the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses on
these contracts will not be determined for several years. The remaining weighted average life of all contracts was approximately four years at December 31, 2016.      A limited number of our equity index put option contracts contain collateral posting requirements with respect to changes in the fair value or intrinsic value of the contracts and/or a downgrade of
Berkshire s credit ratings. As of December 31, 2016, we did not have any collateral posting requirements. If Berkshire s credit ratings (currently AA from Standard   Poor s and Aa2 from Moody s) are downgraded below
either  A-  by Standard   Poor s or A3 by Moody s, collateral of up to $1.1 billion could be required to be posted.   
  Our regulated utility subsidiaries are exposed to variations in the prices of fuel required to generate electricity, wholesale
electricity purchased and sold and natural gas supplied for customers. Derivative instruments, including forward purchases and sales, futures, swaps and options, are used to manage a portion of these price risks. Derivative contract assets are
included in other assets and were $142 million as of December 31, 2016 and $103 million as of December 31, 2015. Derivative contract liabilities are included in accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities and were
$145 million as of December 31, 2016 and $237 million as of December 31, 2015. Net derivative contract assets or liabilities of our regulated utilities that are probable of recovery through rates, are offset by regulatory
liabilities or assets. Unrealized gains or losses on contracts accounted for as cash flow or fair value hedges are recorded in other comprehensive income or in net earnings, as appropriate.   

(13)   
   Supplemental cash flow information         A summary of supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 is presented in the following table (in millions).   

85   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses         The liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (also referred to as  claim liabilities ) under our short duration property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts are
based upon estimates of the ultimate claim costs associated with claim occurrences as of the balance sheet date and include estimates for
   incurred-but-not-reported    ( IBNR ) claims. A reconciliation of the changes in claim liabilities for each of the three
years ending December 31, 2016 is as follows (in millions).       
    Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses in the preceding table reflect the losses and loss
adjustment expenses recorded in earnings in each year related to insured events occurring in the current year and in prior years. We present incurred and paid losses under retroactive reinsurance contracts and discount accretion separately. Such
amounts relate to prior years  underlying loss events. Additionally, we discount unpaid losses from certain workers  compensation reinsurance contracts. Discounted workers  compensation liabilities at December 31, 2016 and 2015
were approximately $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, reflecting net discounts of $1.4 billion and $1.6 billion.      Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reflected reductions for prior years  insured events of approximately $1.5 billion in 2016, $2.0 billion in 2015 and $2.3 billion in 2014.
In each year, these reductions derived from our direct insurance business (including private passenger automobile and medical malpractice and workers  compensation coverages), as well as from reinsurance business. The reductions for our
reinsurance business were primarily attributable to lower than expected reported losses from ceding companies with respect to property coverages.      Estimated claim liabilities for environmental, asbestos and other latent injury exposures, net of reinsurance recoverables, were approximately $15.3 billion at December 31, 2016 and
$14.0 billion at December 31, 2015, and included approximately $13.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and $12.4 billion at December 31, 2015 from retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts are
generally subject to aggregate policy limits and thus, our exposure to such claims under these contracts is likewise limited. We monitor evolving case law and its effect on environmental and other latent injury claims. Changing government
regulations, newly identified toxins, newly reported claims, new theories of liability, new contract interpretations and other factors could result in increases in these liabilities. Such development could be material to our results of operations.
We are unable to reliably estimate the amount of additional net loss or the range of net loss that is reasonably possible.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        
   
   A reconciliation of certain net unpaid losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses
(the latter referred to as  ALAE ) of GEICO, General Re, Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) and Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group ( BH Primary ) to our consolidated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
as of December 31, 2016, along with a discussion regarding each group s liability estimation processes, follows.       
     GEICO       For GEICO, we establish and evaluate unpaid claim liabilities using standard actuarial loss development methods and techniques. The actuarial methods utilize historical claims data, adjusted when deemed
appropriate to reflect perceived changes in loss patterns.      We establish average liabilities based on expected severities for
newly reported physical damage and liability claims prior to establishing an individual case reserve when we have insufficient time and information to make specific claim estimates and for a large number of minor physical damage claims that are paid
shortly after being reported. We establish liability case loss estimates, which includes loss adjustment expenses, once the facts and merits of the claim are evaluated.      Estimates for liability coverages are more uncertain primarily due to the longer claim-tails, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the incompleteness of facts at the time the case estimate is
first established. The  claim-tail  is the time period between the claim occurrence date and settlement date. As a result, we establish additional case development liabilities, which are usually percentages of the case liabilities. For
unreported claims, IBNR liabilities are estimated by projecting the ultimate number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage and deducting reported claims to produce estimated unreported claims. The product of the
average cost per unreported claim and the number of unreported claims produces the IBNR liability estimate. We may record supplemental IBNR liabilities in certain situations when actuarial techniques are difficult to apply.   
  GEICO s claims are counted when accidents that may result in a liability are reported and are based on policy coverage. Each claim
event may generate claims under multiple coverages, and thus may result in multiple counts. The  Cumulative Number of Reported Claims  in the table which follows includes the combined number of reported claims for all policy coverages and
excludes projected IBNR claims.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        
   
   GEICO s claim liabilities predominantly relate to various types of private
passenger auto liability and physical damage claims. Aggregate incurred and paid loss and ALAE data by accident year for these claims, net of reinsurance, follows. IBNR and case development liabilities are as of December 31, 2016. Dollars are
in millions.       

*  
   Unaudited supplemental information      
   General Re       General
Re s liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses include case and IBNR estimates and primarily relate to casualty and workers  compensation coverages. Case losses are reported under reinsurance contracts either individually
or in bulk as provided under the terms of the contracts. We independently evaluate reported loss amounts and if deemed appropriate, we establish case liabilities based on our estimates.   
  We primarily use Bornhuetter Ferguson methods to estimate IBNR amounts for claims liabilities. The expected case loss emergence
patterns and expected loss ratios are the critical assumptions applicable to these estimates. Once the annual IBNR liabilities are determined, we estimate the expected case loss emergence for the next calendar year based on the prior  year-end  expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios. Liability estimates also include estimates of the impact of major catastrophe events as they become known, which rely more on a  per-policy  assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual loss event. Claim count data is excluded, as such information is not provided consistently by ceding companies under our contracts or is
otherwise considered unreliable.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        
   
   General Re s incurred and paid loss and ALAE data by accident year, net of
reinsurance, is presented in the following tables. IBNR and case development liabilities are as of December 31, 2016. Dollars are in millions.       

*   
   Unaudited supplemental information      
   BHRG       BHRG s
liabilities for losses and ALAE are principally a function of reported losses from ceding companies and IBNR and case development liability estimates which are based on expected loss ratios established on a portfolio basis. Liability estimates also
include estimates of the impact of major catastrophe events, as they become known, which rely more on a  per-policy  assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual loss event. The expected loss
ratios are based upon management s judgment considering the type of business covered, analysis of each ceding company s loss history and evaluation of the portion of the underlying contracts that we reinsure. Claim count data is excluded,
as such information is not provided consistently by ceding companies under our contracts or is otherwise considered unreliable.   
         89   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        
   
   BHRG s incurred and paid loss and ALAE data by accident year, net of reinsurance,
is presented in the following tables. IBNR and case development liabilities are as of December 31, 2016. Dollars are in millions.       

*   
   Unaudited supplemental information      

**   
   Excludes retroactive reinsurance losses and ALAE          BH Primary       BH Primary s liabilities for unpaid losses and ALAE
primarily derive from workers  compensation, medical professional and other liability insurance. Other liability insurance includes commercial auto and general liability policies. We periodically evaluate ultimate unpaid loss and ALAE estimates
for the workers  compensation and general liability lines using a combination of commonly accepted actuarial methodologies, such as the Bornhuetter Ferguson and chain-ladder approaches using paid and incurred loss data. Paid and incurred
loss data is segregated into groups such as coverages, territories or other characteristics. We establish case liabilities for reported claims based upon the facts and circumstances of the claim. The excess of the ultimate projected losses,
including the expected development of case estimates, and the case-basis liabilities is included in IBNR liabilities. For medical professional liabilities, we use a combination of the aforementioned methods, as well as other loss severity based
methods. From these estimates, we determine our best estimate. Periodically, we study developments in older accident years and adjust initial loss estimates to reflect recent development based upon claim age, coverage and litigation experience. The
cumulative number of reported claims reflects the number of individual claimants, and includes claim that ultimately result in no liability or payment.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        
   
   BH Primary s incurred and paid loss and ALAE data by accident year, net of
reinsurance, is presented in the following tables. IBNR and case development liabilities are as of December 31, 2016. Dollars are in millions.       

*   
   Unaudited supplemental information         Supplemental unaudited average historical claims duration information based on the net losses and ALAE incurred and paid accident year data in the preceding tables follows. The percentages show the
average portions of net losses and ALAE paid by each succeeding year, with year 1 representing the current accident year.       
     Retroactive Reinsurance       BHRG s retroactive reinsurance contracts cover underlying loss events that occurred prior to the contract inception date, which are paid immediately after the contract date or once a contractual
retention amount has been reached. As of December 31, 2016 approximately 83% of gross unpaid losses pertained to underlying loss events that occurred prior to January 2007. We do   
         91   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(14)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)        

not believe that analysis of losses incurred and paid by accident year of the underlying event is relevant or meaningful given that our exposure to losses incepts when the contract incepts.
Further, we believe the classifications of reported claims and case development liabilities has no practical analytical value.   
  In establishing retroactive reinsurance liabilities, we often analyze historical aggregate loss payment patterns and project losses into
the future under various scenarios. We expect the claim-tail to be very long for many contracts, with some lasting several decades. We assign judgmental probability factors to these aggregate loss payment scenarios and an expectancy outcome is
determined. We monitor claim payment activity and review ceding company reports and other information concerning the underlying losses. Since the expected claim-tails are often very long, we reassess and revise the expected timing and amounts of
ultimate losses periodically or when significant events are revealed through our monitoring and review processes.      Incurred
losses and loss adjustment expenses attributable to retroactive reinsurance contracts included $1.26 billion in 2016 and $3.43 billion in 2014 from new contracts written in those years. Incurred losses related to retroactive reinsurance
contracts written in prior years were $440 million in 2016, $631 million in 2015 and $831 million in 2014, which included recurring amortization of deferred charges and the effect of changes in the timing and amount of expected future
loss payments.       

(15)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings         Notes payable and other borrowings are summarized below (in millions). The weighted average interest rates and maturity date ranges shown in the following tables are based on borrowings as of
December 31, 2016.       
    In January 2016, Berkshire entered into a $10 billion
 364-day  revolving credit agreement and, in connection with the PCC acquisition, borrowed $10 billion. In March 2016, Berkshire issued  2.75 billion and $5.5 billion in senior unsecured
notes. The notes consisted of  1.0 billion of 0.50% notes due in 2020,  1.0 billion of 1.30% notes due in 2024,  750 million of 2.15% notes due in 2028, $1.0 billion of 2.20% notes due in 2021, $2.0 billion of
2.75% notes due in 2023 and $2.5 billion of 3.125% notes due in 2026. The proceeds from these debt issues were used in the repayment of all outstanding borrowings under the aforementioned credit agreement, which was subsequently terminated. In
August 2016, Berkshire issued $750 million in senior unsecured notes consisting of $500 million of 1.15% notes due in 2018 and $250 million of floating rate notes due in 2018, to replace $750 million of maturing debt. Other
subsidiary borrowings at December 31, 2016 included $4.5 billion attributable to PCC.       
    BHE subsidiary debt represents amounts issued pursuant to separate financing agreements. Substantially
all of the assets of certain BHE subsidiaries are, or may be, pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise secure debt. These borrowing arrangements generally contain various covenants including, but not limited to, leverage ratios, interest
coverage ratios and debt   
         92   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(15)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings   (Continued)            
   
service coverage ratios. In 2016, BHE subsidiaries issued approximately $1.8 billion of debt with maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2046 and a weighted average interest rate of 3.0%.
     BNSF s borrowings are primarily senior unsecured debentures. In 2016, BNSF issued $750 million of senior unsecured
3.9% debentures due in 2046. As of December 31, 2016, BNSF, BHE and their subsidiaries were in compliance with all applicable debt covenants. Berkshire does not guarantee any debt, borrowings or lines of credit of BNSF, BHE or their
subsidiaries.       
    In March 2016, BHFC issued $3.5 billion of senior notes consisting of $750 million of 1.45%
notes due in 2018, $1.0 billion of floating rate notes due in 2018, $1.25 billion of 1.70% notes due in 2019 and $500 million of floating rate notes due in 2019. In August 2016, BHFC issued $1.25 billion of senior notes
consisting of $1 billion of 1.30% notes due in 2019 and $250 million of floating rate notes due in 2019, primarily to replace $1 billion of maturing debt. The borrowings of BHFC, a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Berkshire, are
fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Berkshire.      As of December 31, 2016, our subsidiaries had unused lines of credit
and commercial paper capacity aggregating approximately $7.6 billion to support short-term borrowing programs and provide additional liquidity. Such unused lines of credit included about $4.0 billion related to BHE and its subsidiaries. In
addition to BHFC s borrowings, at December 31, 2016, Berkshire guaranteed approximately $3.3 billion of other subsidiary borrowings. Generally, Berkshire s guarantee of a subsidiary s debt obligation is an absolute,
unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all payment obligations.      Principal
repayments expected during each of the next five years are as follows (in millions).       
     
    The
liabilities for income taxes reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets are as follows (in millions).       
 
         93   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(16)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)            
   The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are shown below (in millions).       
    We have not established deferred income taxes on accumulated undistributed earnings of certain foreign
subsidiaries. Such earnings were approximately $12.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and are expected to remain reinvested indefinitely. Upon distribution as dividends or otherwise, such amounts would be subject to taxation in the U.S. and
potentially in other countries. However, U.S. income tax liabilities would be offset, in whole or in part, by allowable tax credits deriving from income taxes previously paid to foreign jurisdictions. Further, repatriation of all accumulated
earnings of foreign subsidiaries would be impracticable to the extent that such earnings represent capital needed to support normal business operations. As a result, we currently believe that any incremental U.S. income tax liabilities arising from
the repatriation of distributable earnings of foreign subsidiaries would not be material.      Income tax expense reflected in our
Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 is as follows (in millions).       
 
         94   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(16)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)            
   Income tax expense is reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the U.S. federal
statutory rate for each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 in the table below (in millions).       
    We file income tax returns in the United States and in state, local and foreign jurisdictions. We are
under examination by the taxing authorities in many of these jurisdictions. We have settled income tax liabilities with U.S. federal taxing authorities for years before 2010. The IRS continues to audit Berkshire s consolidated U.S. federal
income tax returns for the 2010 through 2013 tax years. We are also under audit or subject to audit with respect to income taxes in many state and foreign jurisdictions. It is reasonably possible that certain income tax examinations will be settled
within the next twelve months. We currently do not believe that the outcome of unresolved issues or claims will be material to our Consolidated Financial Statements.      At December 31, 2016 and 2015, net unrecognized tax benefits were $485 million and $570 million, respectively. Included in the balance at December 31, 2016, were $369 million of
tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. The remaining balance in net unrecognized tax benefits principally relates to tax positions where the ultimate recognition is highly certain but there is uncertainty about the
timing of such recognition. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, the differences in recognition periods would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier
period. As of December 31, 2016, we do not expect any material changes to the estimated amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months.       

(17)   
   Dividend restrictions Insurance subsidiaries         Payments of dividends by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior regulatory approval, our principal insurance subsidiaries may declare up to
approximately $13 billion as ordinary dividends during 2017.      Combined shareholders  equity of U.S. based insurance
subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory accounting rules (Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately $136 billion at December 31, 2016 and $124 billion at December 31, 2015. Statutory surplus differs from the
corresponding amount based on GAAP due to differences in accounting for certain assets and liabilities. For instance, deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition costs, unrealized gains on certain investments and related
deferred income taxes are recognized for GAAP but not for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, the carrying values of certain assets, such as goodwill and the values of  non-insurance  entities owned by
our insurance subsidiaries, are not fully recognized for statutory reporting purposes.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(18)   
   Fair value measurements      
  Our financial assets and liabilities are summarized below as of December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 with fair values shown
according to the fair value hierarchy (in millions). The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, U.S. Treasury Bills, receivables and accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities are considered to be reasonable estimates of their fair
values.       

(1)  
    
     Assets are included in other assets and liabilities are included in accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities.
      
         96   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(18)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
   The fair values of substantially all of our financial instruments were measured using
market or income approaches. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the fair values presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized
in an actual current market exchange. The use of alternative market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value. The hierarchy for measuring fair value consists of Levels 1 through 3, which are
described below.       Level 1  Inputs represent unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged
in active markets.       Level 2  Inputs include directly or indirectly observable inputs (other than Level 1
inputs) such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities exchanged in active or inactive markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged in inactive markets; other inputs that may be considered in fair value
determinations of the assets or liabilities, such as interest rates and yield curves, volatilities, prepayment speeds, loss severities, credit risks and default rates; and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
data by correlation or other means. Pricing evaluations generally reflect discounted expected future cash flows, which incorporate yield curves for instruments with similar characteristics, such as credit ratings, estimated durations and yields for
other instruments of the issuer or entities in the same industry sector.       Level 3  Inputs include unobservable
inputs used in the measurement of assets and liabilities. Management is required to use its own assumptions regarding unobservable inputs because there is little, if any, market activity in the assets or liabilities and it may be unable to
corroborate the related observable inputs. Unobservable inputs require management to make certain projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market participants in valuing assets or liabilities.   
  Reconciliations of assets and liabilities measured and carried at fair value on a recurring basis with the use of significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) for each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 follow (in millions).       
 
         97   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(18)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
   Gains and losses included in earnings are included as components of investment
gains/losses, derivative gains/losses and other revenues, as appropriate and are primarily related to changes in the values of derivative contracts and settlement transactions. Gains and losses included in other comprehensive income are primarily
the net change in unrealized appreciation of investments and the reclassification of investment appreciation in net earnings, as appropriate in our Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. In 2016, our Wrigley preferred stock investment was
disposed and our Dow preferred stock investment was converted into Dow common stock.      Quantitative information as of
December 31, 2016, with respect to assets and liabilities measured and carried at fair value on a recurring basis with the use of significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) follows (in millions).   

Fair Value   

Principal     Valuation 
Techniques   

Unobservable Inputs   

Weighted Average   

Other investments:   

Preferred stocks   
      
  $  
  7,659  

Discounted cash flow  

Expected duration  

7 years  

Discount for transferability restrictions and subordination  

145 basis points  

Common stock warrants   

9,597  

Warrant pricing model  

Discount for transferability and hedging restrictions  

5%  

Derivative liabilities:   

Equity index put options   

2,890  

Option pricing model  

Volatility  

20%  
      
    Our other investments currently include preferred stocks and common stock warrants that we acquired in
private placement transactions. These investments are subject to contractual restrictions on transferability and may contain provisions that prevent us from economically hedging our investments. In applying discounted estimated cash flow techniques
in valuing the preferred stocks, we made assumptions regarding the expected durations of the investments, as the issuers may have redemption rights. We also made estimates regarding the impact of subordination, as the preferred stocks have a lower
priority in liquidation than debt instruments of the issuers. In valuing the common stock warrants, we used a warrant valuation model. While most of the inputs to the model are observable, we are subject to the aforementioned contractual
restrictions and we have applied discounts with respect to such restrictions. Increases or decreases to these inputs would result in decreases or increases to the fair values of the investments.   
  Our equity index put option contracts are illiquid and contain contract terms that are not standard in derivatives markets. For example,
we are not required to post collateral under most of our contracts and certain of the contracts have relatively long durations. For these and other reasons, we classified these contracts as Level 3. The methods we use to value these contracts
are those that we believe market participants would use in determining exchange prices with respect to our contracts.      We
value equity index put option contracts based on the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Inputs to this model include index price, contract duration and dividend and interest rate inputs (including a Berkshire
 non-performance  input) which are observable. However, we believe that the valuation of long-duration options using any model is inherently subjective and, given the lack of observable transactions and prices,
acceptable values may be subject to wide ranges. Volatility inputs represent our expectations, which consider the remaining duration of each contract and assume that the contracts will remain outstanding until the expiration dates. Increases or
decreases in the volatility inputs will produce increases or decreases in the fair values of the liabilities.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

Changes in
Berkshire s issued, treasury and outstanding common stock during the three years ending December 31, 2016 are shown in the table below.       
    Each Class A common share is entitled to one vote per share. Class B common stock possesses
dividend and distribution rights equal to  one-fifteen-hundredth  (1/1,500) of such rights of Class A common stock. Each Class B common share possesses voting rights equivalent to   one-ten-thousandth   (1/10,000) of the voting rights of a Class A share. Unless otherwise required under Delaware General Corporation Law, Class A and
Class B common shares vote as a single class. Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into 1,500 shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is not convertible into Class A
common stock. On an equivalent Class A common stock basis, there were 1,644,321 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2016 and 1,643,393 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2015. In addition to our common stock, 1,000,000 shares of
preferred stock are authorized, but none are issued.      Berkshire s Board of Directors ( Berkshire s Board )
has approved a common stock repurchase program under which Berkshire may repurchase its Class A and Class B shares at prices no higher than a 20% premium over the book value of the shares. Berkshire may repurchase shares in the open market
or through privately negotiated transactions. Berkshire s Board authorization does not specify a maximum number of shares to be repurchased. However, repurchases will not be made if they would reduce the total value of Berkshire s
consolidated cash, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bills holdings below $20 billion. The repurchase program does not obligate Berkshire to repurchase any dollar amount or number of Class A or Class B shares and there is no
expiration date to the program. There were no share repurchases under the program over the last three years. In 2014, we acquired WPLG, whose assets included 2,107 shares of Berkshire Hathaway Class A Common Stock and 1,278 shares of
Class B Common Stock, which are included in treasury stock.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(20)   
   Accumulated other comprehensive income         A summary of the net changes in  after-tax  accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders and significant amounts
reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income for each of the three years ending December 31, 2016 follows (in millions).       
     
    Several of
our subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees. Benefits under the plans are generally based on years of service and compensation, although benefits under certain plans are based on years of service and fixed
benefit rates. Our subsidiaries may make contributions to the plans to meet regulatory requirements and may also make discretionary contributions.   
         100

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(21)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years ending
December 31, 2016 are as follows (in millions).       
    The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based on service and
compensation prior to the valuation date. The projected benefit obligation ( PBO ) is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based upon service and compensation prior to the valuation date and, if applicable, includes assumptions
regarding future compensation levels. Benefit obligations under qualified U.S. defined benefit pension plans are funded through assets held in trusts. Pension obligations under certain  non-U.S.  plans and  non-qualified  U.S. plans are unfunded and the aggregate PBO of such plans was approximately $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.   
  Reconciliations of the changes in plan assets and PBOs related to BHE s pension plans and all other pension plans for each of the
two years ending December 31, 2016 are in the following tables (in millions). The costs of pension plans covering employees of certain regulated subsidiaries of BHE are generally recoverable through the regulated rate making process.
      
    The funded status of our defined benefit pension plans at December 31, 2016 was reflected in other
assets ($644 million) and liabilities ($2,997 million). At December 31, 2015, the funded status was included in other assets ($456 million) and liabilities ($2,884 million).   
         101

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(21)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   Weighted average interest rate assumptions used in determining PBOs and net periodic
pension expense were as follows.       
    Benefits payments expected over the next ten years are as follows (in millions): 2017 $992;
2018 $1,007; 2019 $987; 2020 $1,003; 2021 $994; and 2022 to 2026 $5,043. Sponsoring subsidiaries expect to contribute $224 million to defined benefit pension plans in 2017.   
  Fair value measurements of plan assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 follow (in millions).   
   
    Refer to Note 18 for a discussion of the three levels in the hierarchy of fair values. Plan assets are
generally invested with the long-term objective of producing earnings to adequately cover expected benefit obligations, while assuming a prudent level of risk. Allocations may change as a result of changing market conditions and investment
opportunities. The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect subjective assessments of expected invested asset returns over a period of several years. Generally, past investment returns are not given significant consideration when establishing
assumptions for expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed rates.      A
reconciliation of the  pre-tax  accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to defined benefit pension plans for each of the two years ending December 31, 2016 follows (in millions).   
   
    Several of our subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement plans, such as 401(k) or profit
sharing plans. Employee contributions are subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan provisions. Several plans provide for   
         102

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(21)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   
employer matching contributions up to levels specified in the plans and provide for additional discretionary contributions as determined by management. Employer contributions expensed with
respect to our defined contribution plans were $944 million in 2016, $739 million in 2015 and $737 million in 2014.       

(22)   
   Contingencies and Commitments         We are parties in a variety of legal actions that routinely arise out of the normal course of business, including legal actions seeking to establish liability directly through insurance contracts or
indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. We do not believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a material effect on our financial condition
or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties. We believe that any liability that may arise as a
result of other pending legal actions will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.      We lease certain manufacturing, warehouse, retail and office facilities as well as certain equipment. Rent expense under operating leases was $1,573 million in 2016, $1,516 million in 2015 and
$1,484 million in 2014. Future minimum rental payments for operating leases having  non-cancellable  terms in excess of one year are as follows (in millions).   
   
    Our subsidiaries regularly make commitments in the ordinary course of business to purchase goods and
services used in their businesses. The most significant of these relate to our railroad, utilities and energy businesses and our fractional aircraft ownership business. As of December 31, 2016, estimated future payments under such arrangements
are as follows: $11.1 billion in 2017, $4.1 billion in 2018, $3.5 billion in 2019, $2.9 billion in 2020, $2.0 billion in 2021 and $14.6 billion after 2021.   
  We own a 50% interest in a joint venture, Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC ( Berkadia ), with Leucadia National Corporation
( Leucadia ) owning the other 50% interest. Berkadia is a servicer of commercial real estate loans in the U.S., performing primary, master and special servicing functions for U.S. government agency programs, commercial mortgage-backed
securities transactions, banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions. A significant source of funding for Berkadia s operations is through the issuance of commercial paper, which is supported by a surety policy issued by a
Berkshire insurance subsidiary. Leucadia is obligated to indemnify us for  one-half  of any losses incurred under the policy. Berkadia s maximum outstanding balance of commercial paper borrowings is
currently limited to $1.5 billion. On December 31, 2016, Berkadia s commercial paper outstanding was $1.47 billion.      In the third quarter of 2016, our wholly-owned subsidiary, National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Medical Liability Mutual Insurance Company
( MLMIC ), a writer of medical professional liability insurance domiciled in New York. MLMIC s assets and policyholders  surplus determined under statutory accounting principles as of June 30, 2016 were approximately
$5.5 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively. The acquisition price will be an amount equal to the sum of: (i) the tangible book value of MLMIC at the closing date (determined under U.S. GAAP); plus (ii) $100 million. The
acquisition will involve the conversion of MLMIC from a mutual company to a stock company. The closing of the transaction is subject to various regulatory approvals, customary closing conditions and the approval of the MLMIC policyholders eligible
to vote on the proposed demutualization and sale. The transaction is expected to be completed in late 2017.      Pursuant to
the terms of agreements with noncontrolling shareholders in our less than wholly-owned subsidiaries, we may be obligated to acquire their equity ownership interests. If we had acquired all outstanding noncontrolling interests as of December 31,
2016, we estimate the cost would have been approximately $5.0 billion. However, the timing and the amount of any such future payments that might be required are contingent on future actions of the noncontrolling owners.   

(23)   
   Business segment data      
  Our operating businesses include a large and diverse group of insurance, finance, manufacturing, service and retailing businesses. Our
reportable business segments are organized in a manner that reflects how management views those business   
         103

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   
activities. Certain businesses have been grouped together for segment reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and distribution characteristics, even though
those business units are operated under separate local management.      The tabular information that follows shows data of
reportable segments reconciled to amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Intersegment transactions are not eliminated from segment results when management considers those transactions in assessing the results of the respective
segments. Furthermore, our management does not consider investment and derivative gains/losses or amortization of certain purchase accounting adjustments related to Berkshire s business acquisitions in assessing the performance of reporting
units. Collectively, these items are included in reconciliations of segment amounts to consolidated amounts.       

Business Identity    
      
     Business Activity     

Insurance:  

GEICO   
      
  Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance mainly by direct response methods   

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group   
      
  Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty insurance policies for primarily commercial accounts   

General Re   
      
  Underwriting   excess-of-loss,   quota-share and facultative reinsurance worldwide   

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group   
      
  Underwriting   excess-of-loss   and quota-share reinsurance for insurers and reinsurers
worldwide   

BNSF  
      
  Operation of one of the largest railroad systems in North America   

Berkshire Hathaway Energy  
      
  Regulated electric and gas utility, including power generation and distribution activities and real estate brokerage activities   

Manufacturing  
      
  Manufacturers of numerous products including industrial, consumer and building products   

McLane Company  
      
  Wholesale distribution of groceries and  non-food  items   

Service and retailing  
      
  Providers of numerous services including fractional aircraft ownership programs, aviation pilot training, electronic components distribution and various retailing businesses,
including automotive dealerships   

Finance and financial products  
      
  Manufactured housing and related consumer financing, transportation equipment, manufacturing and leasing, and furniture leasing   
 
         104

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   A disaggregation of our consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is
presented in the tables which follow (in millions).       

105

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            

Premiums written and earned by the property/casualty and life/health insurance businesses are summarized
below (in millions).       
 
         106

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)      

(23)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of the insured
or reinsured) are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.       
    Consolidated sales and service revenues were $125.7 billion in 2016, $112.4 billion in 2015 and
$102.2 billion in 2014. In 2016, 85% of such revenues were attributable to the United States compared to 87% in 2015 and 85% in 2014. The remainder of sales and service revenues were primarily in Europe, Canada and the Asia Pacific.
Consolidated sales and service revenues included sales to  Wal-Mart  Stores, Inc. of approximately $14 billion in 2016 and $13 billion in 2015 and 2014. Approximately 95% of our revenues for each of
the last three years from railroad, utilities and energy businesses were in the United States. At December 31, 2016, approximately 89% of our consolidated net property, plant and equipment was located in the United States with the remainder
primarily in Canada and Europe.       
    A summary
of revenues and earnings by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in the following table. This information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.   

*   
   Includes investment and derivative gains/losses.  After-tax  investment and derivative gains/losses for the periods presented
above are as follows (in millions):          
     
    In
January 2017, NICO entered into a retroactive reinsurance agreement with various subsidiaries of American International Group, Inc. (collectively,  AIG ). Under the agreement, NICO agreed to indemnify AIG for 80% of up to $25 billion,
excess of $25 billion retained by AIG, of losses and allocated loss adjustment expenses with respect to certain commercial insurance loss events occurring in years prior to 2016 for a premium of about $10 billion. Berkshire has agreed to
guarantee all amounts due to AIG under the agreement.   
         107

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure      
  None       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures      
  At the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form  10-K,  the Corporation carried out
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President (Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule  13a-15.  Based upon that evaluation, the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President
(Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to the Corporation (including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be
included in the Corporation s periodic SEC filings. The report called for by Item 308(a) of Regulation  S-K  is incorporated herein by reference to Management s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, included on page 62 of this report. The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of Regulation  S-K  is incorporated herein by reference to Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, included on page 63 of this report. There has been no change in the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         None
  
         108

Table of Contents  

      Part III    
  Except for the information set forth under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I hereof, information
required by this Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on
May 6, 2017, which meeting will involve the election of directors.       Part IV    

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules      
  (a)1.  Financial Statements    
  The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are included in
Part II Item 8 of this report:       
    (b)  Exhibits       See the  Exhibit Index  at page 115.   
         109

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.       

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.   

Date: February 24, 2017  

/s/    M ARC  D. H AMBURG    

Marc D. Hamburg    

Senior Vice President and    

Principal Financial Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

/ S /    W ARREN  E.
B UFFETT               Warren E. Buffett    
      
    Chairman of the Board of  
  Directors Chief Executive Officer   
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    H OWARD  G.
B UFFETT               Howard G. Buffett    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    S TEPHEN  B.
B URKE               Stephen B. Burke    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    S USAN  L.
D ECKER               Susan L. Decker    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    W ILLIAM  H. G ATES 
III              William H. Gates III    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    D AVID  S.
G OTTESMAN               David S. Gottesman    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    C HARLOTTE 
G UYMAN               Charlotte Guyman    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    C HARLES  T.
M UNGER               Charles T. Munger    
      
  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    T HOMAS  S.
M URPHY               Thomas S. Murphy    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    R ONALD  L.
O LSON               Ronald L. Olson    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    W ALTER  S COTT ,
J R .              Walter Scott, Jr.    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    M ERYL  B.
W ITMER               Meryl B. Witmer    
      
  Director  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG               Marc D. Hamburg    
      
  Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    

/ S /    D ANIEL  J.
J AKSICH               Daniel J. Jaksich    
      
  Vice President Principal Accounting Officer  
     
    February 24, 2017  
  Date    
 
         110

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      Omaha, Nebraska   
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
December 31, 2016 and 2015, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016, and the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, and have issued our report thereon dated
February 24, 2017; such consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form  10-K.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15.
This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 24, 2017   
         111

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information        (Dollars in millions)    
   Schedule I    
     Balance Sheets        
     Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income    
   
     See Note to Condensed Financial Information    
         112

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.    
   (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information        (Dollars in millions)    
   Schedule I (continued)        Statements of Cash Flows        
     Note to Condensed Financial Information    
  In 2013, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire ) invested $12.25 billion in H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation ( Heinz
Holding ), an entity formed to acquire H.J. Heinz Company. Berkshire s investments included common stock and warrants and cumulative compounding preferred stock. In 2015, Berkshire exercised the common stock warrants and acquired
additional shares of Kraft Heinz common stock for approximately $5.3 billion. Thereafter, Heinz Holding and Kraft Foods Group, Inc. completed a merger, and Heinz Holding was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company ( Kraft Heinz ). Kraft Heinz
issued additional common stock to Kraft Food holders, reducing Berkshire s ownership from 52.5% to 26.8%. Berkshire accounted for its investment in Heinz Holding common stock and continues to account for its investment in Kraft Heinz common
stock under the equity method. In applying the equity method, the investor treats the issuance of shares by an investee as if the investor had sold a proportionate share of its investment. As a result, Berkshire recorded a  non-cash   pre-tax  holding gain of approximately $6.8 billion in 2015. In 2016, Kraft Heinz redeemed the preferred stock for cash of $8.32 billion.   
  On January 8, 2016, Berkshire entered into a $10 billion  364-day  revolving credit
agreement and Berkshire borrowed $10 billion under the agreement in connection with the acquisition of Precision Castparts Corp. on January 29. In March 2016, Berkshire issued  2.75 billion and $5.5 billion in senior unsecured
notes. The notes consisted of  1.0 billion of 0.50% notes due in 2020,  1.0 billion of 1.30% notes due in 2024,  750 million of 2.15% notes due in 2028, $1.0 billion of 2.20% notes due in 2021, $2.0 billion of
2.75% notes due in 2023 and $2.5 billion of 3.125% notes due in 2026. The proceeds from these debt issues were used to repay all outstanding borrowings under the aforementioned credit agreement, which was subsequently terminated. In August
2016, Berkshire issued $750 million in senior unsecured notes consisting of $500 million of 1.15% notes due in 2018 and $250 million of floating rate notes due in 2018, to replace $750 million of maturing debt. Notes payable and
borrowings at December 31, 2016 mature over the next five years as follows: 2017 $1,101 million; 2018 $1,551 million; 2019 $754 million; 2020 $1,054 million and 2021 $1,500 million.   
         113

Table of Contents  

   Berkshire guarantees debt obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, which as of
December 31, 2016, totaled approximately $17.7 billion. Berkshire s guarantee of subsidiary debt is an absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment
obligations. Berkshire also provides guarantees in connection with equity index put option contracts of a subsidiary. The estimated fair value of liabilities recorded under such contracts was approximately $2.9 billion as of December 31,
2016. The amount of subsidiary payments under these contracts, if any, is contingent upon future events.   
         114

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX    

Exhibit No.    

2(i)  
     
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Berkshire and General Re Corporation.    

Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration Statement  No. 333-61129  filed
on Form  S-4.     

2(ii)  
     
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 2, 2009 by and among Berkshire, R Acquisition Company, LLC and BNSF.
Incorporated by reference to Annex A to Registration Statement  No. 333-163343  on  Form S-4.     

2(iii)  
     
    Agreement and Plan of Merger dated August 8, 2015, by and among Berkshire, NW Merger Sub Inc. and Precision Castparts
Corporation ( PCC )    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to PCC s Current Report on Form  8-K  filed
on August 10, 2015 (SEC File  No. 001-10348)     

3(i)  
     
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Form  10-K  filed on March 2,
2015.    

3(ii)  
     
     By-Laws     

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Form  8-K  filed on May 4,
2016.    

4.1  
     
    Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and The
Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association), as trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 on Form  S-4  of Berkshire Hathaway Finance
Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on February 4, 2004. SEC File  No. 333-112486     

4.2  
     
    Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2010, among Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and The Bank
of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Berkshire s Registration Statement on Form
 S-3  filed on February 1, 2010. SEC File  No. 333-164111     

4.3  
     
    Indenture, dated as of January 26, 2016, by and among Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation and
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Berkshire s Registration Statement on Form
 S-3  filed on January 26, 2016. SEC File  No. 333-209122     

4.4  
     
    Indenture, dated as of December 1, 1995, between BNSF and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 on Form  S-3  of BNSF filed on February 8,
1999.    

4.5  
     
    Indenture, dated as of October 4, 2002, by and between MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company and The Bank of New York,
Trustee.    

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company Registration Statement  No. 333-101699  dated December 6, 2002.    

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities authorized by all
other such instruments does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2016. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of any such
debt instrument to which it is a party.    

10.1  
     
    Equity Commitment Letter of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. with Hawk Acquisition Holding Corporation
dated February 13, 2013.     Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 on Form  8-K  of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on February 14, 2013.    

12  
     
    Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges    

14  
     
    Code of Ethics    

Berkshire s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on its Internet website
at       www.berkshirehathaway.com      

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

31  
     
  Rule  13a 14(a)/15d-14(a)  Certifications   

32  
     
  Section 1350 Certifications    
         115

Table of Contents  

116

<EX-12>
 2
 d303001dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 12    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges    
   (Dollars in millions)        

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 d303001dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2016    

Company Name    
      
   Domicile or State of Incorporation    

Acme Brick Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Acme Building Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Albecca Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    AltaLink, L.P.   
      
  Canada   
 
    AltaLink Holdings, L.P.   
      
  Canada   
 
    AltaLink Investments, L.P.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Applied Underwriters, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Ben Bridge Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Ben Bridge Jeweler, Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    Benjamin Moore   Co.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Benjamin Moore   Co., Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Benson Industries, Inc.   
      
  Oregon   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Automotive Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company   
      
  Iowa   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    BH Media Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BHE Canada, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BHE Canada Holdings Corporation   
      
  Canada   
 
    BHE AltaLink Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    BHE U.S. Transmission, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BHE Renewables, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BHSF, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH Finance LLC   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    BH Shoe Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BNSF Railway Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Boat America Corporation   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Brooks Sports, Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    The Buffalo News, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bushwick Metals LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Business Wire, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    California Insurance Company   
      
  California   
 
    Campbell Hausfeld, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cannon-Muskegon Corporation   
      
  Michigan   
 
    Carlton Forge Works   
      
  California   
 
    Central States Indemnity Co. of Omaha   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Central States of Omaha Companies, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Cerro Flow Products LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cerro Wire LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Charter Brokerage Holdings Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Chemtool Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clayton Homes, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CMH Homes, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    CMH Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2016    

Company Name    
      
   Domicile or State of Incorporation    

CMH Parks, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    Columbia Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Cornelius, Inc.   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    CORT Business Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CTB International Corp.   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Cubic Designs, Inc.   
      
  Wisconsin   
 
    Cypress Insurance Company   
      
  California   
 
    Designed Metal Connections, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Detlev Louis Motorrad-Vertriebsgesellschaft GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Duracell Batteries BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Duracell (China) Limited   
      
  China   
 
    The Duracell Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Duracell International Operations S rl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Duracell Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Duracell U.S. Holding LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Duracell U.S. Operations, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ecowater Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Empire Distributors, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Empire Distributors of North Carolina, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    EXSIF Worldwide, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Faraday Underwriting Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The Fechheimer Brothers Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FlightSafety International Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    FlightSafety Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Forest River, Inc.   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Freo Group Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Fruit of the Loom, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Garan, Incorporated   
      
  Virginia   
 
    GEICO Advantage Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    GEICO Casualty Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Choice Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    GEICO Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEICO General Insurance Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Indemnity Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Secure Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    GRD Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gen Re Intermediaries Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    General Re Life Corporation   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    General Re Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Re Financial Products Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Reinsurance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Star Indemnity Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Star National Insurance Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Reinsurance AG   
      
  Germany   
 
    General Reinsurance Africa Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    General Reinsurance Australia Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    General Reinsurance Life Australia Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Genesis Insurance Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Global Cranes Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Government Employees Insurance Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc.   
      
  Missouri   

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2016    

Company Name    
      
   Domicile or State of Incorporation    

H. H. Brown Shoe Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Homemakers Plaza, Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    HomeServices of America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Huntington Alloys Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Dairy Queen, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    IMC (Germany) Holdings GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Ingersoll Cutting Tool Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ingersoll Werkzeuge GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Iscar Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Johns Manville   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Johns Manville Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Johns Manville Slovakia, a.s.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Jordan s Furniture, Inc.   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Justin Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Justin Industries, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Kahn Ventures, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Kern River Gas Transmission Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    KR Holding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    L. A. Darling Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Larson-Juhl US LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Lipotec, S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Lubrizol Advanced Materials Europe BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Lubrizol Advanced Materials International, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lubrizol Advanced Materials, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Lubrizol Corporation   
      
  Ohio   
 
    Lubrizol France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Lubrizol (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Lubrizol (Gibraltar) Limited Luxembourg SCS   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Lubrizol (Gibraltar) Minority Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Lubrizol Holdings France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Lubrizol International, Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Lubrizol Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Lubrizol Overseas Trading Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lubrizol Specialty Products, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    M M Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Crane Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Energy Services Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Engineered Components Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Food, Beverage   Water Technologies Company LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Retail Technologies Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon Transportation Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The Marmon Group of Canada Ltd.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Marmon/Keystone LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marquis Jet Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marquis Jet Partners, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McLane Company, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    McLane Foodservice, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Meadowbrook Meat Company, Inc.   
      
  North Carolina   
 
    The Medical Protective Company   
      
  Indiana   

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2016    

Company Name    
      
   Domicile or State of Incorporation    

MedPro Group Inc   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Meyn Holding B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Meyn Food Processing Technology B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    MHC Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Energy Company   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Funding, LLC   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MiTek Industries, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mount Vernon Fire Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Mouser Electronics, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    National Fire   Marine Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    National Indemnity Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    National Indemnity Company of the South   
      
  Florida   
 
    National Indemnity Company of  Mid-America    
      
  Iowa   
 
    National Liability   Fire Insurance Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Nebraska Furniture Mart, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep N.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    NetJets Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nevada Power Company   
      
  Nevada   
 
    NFM of Kansas, Inc.   
      
  Kansas   
 
    NNGC Acquisition, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Northern Electric plc.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Natural Gas Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid Holdings Company   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Northern Powergrid UK Holdings   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    NV Energy, Inc.   
      
  Nevada   
 
    NVE Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oak River Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Old United Casualty Company   
      
  Kansas   
 
    Old United Life Insurance Company   
      
  Arizona   
 
    OTC Worldwide Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oriental Trading Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PacifiCorp   
      
  Oregon   
 
    The Pampered Chef, Ltd.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    PCC Airfoils LLC   
      
  Mexico   
 
    PCC Structurals, Inc.   
      
  Oregon   
 
    Princeton Insurance Company   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    PLICO, Inc.   
      
  Oklahoma   
 
    PPW Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Precision Castparts Corp.   
      
  Oregon   
 
    Precision Steel Warehouse, Inc.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Primus International Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    Procor Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Procrane Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Railsplitter Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    R. C. Willey Home Furnishings   
      
  Utah   
 
    Redwood Fire and Casualty Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Richline Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RSCC Wire   Cable LLC   
      
  Delaware   

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 21    
   BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)        December 31, 2016    

Company Name    
      
   Domicile or State of Incorporation    

Russell Brands, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sager Electrical Supply Co. Inc   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Schuller GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Scott Fetzer Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    See s Candies, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    See s Candy Shops, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Shaw Contract Flooring Services, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Shaw Industries Group, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Sierra Pacific Power Company   
      
  Nevada   
 
    S fft Shoe Company, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Special Metals Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SPS Technologies, LLC   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Star Furniture Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    Sterling Crane LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TaeguTec Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Titanium Metals Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TTI, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tungaloy Corporation   
      
  Japan   
 
    Unarco Industries LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Union Tank Car Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Union Underwear Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    United States Liability Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    U.S. Investment Corporation   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    U.S. Underwriters Insurance Company   
      
  North Dakota   
 
    UTLX Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vanderbilt Mortgage and Finance, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    21st Mortgage Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vanity Fair Brands, LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Webb Wheel Products, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Lamont LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    WestGUARD Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    World Book/Scott Fetzer Company, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Wyman-Gordon Company   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Wyman-Gordon Forgings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    WPLG, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Lease LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA LLC   
      
  Maine   
 
    Yorkshire Electricity Group plc.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Yorkshire Power Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

(1)  
  Each of the named subsidiaries is not necessarily a  significant subsidiary  as defined in Rule  1-02(w)  of Regulation  S-X,  and Berkshire has several additional subsidiaries not named above. The unnamed subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  at the
end of the year covered by this report.     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 d303001dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Reg.  S-K     
   Item 601    
   Exhibit 23    
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.  333-186257  and  333-209122  on Form  S-3  and Registration Statement Nos.  333-53046,   333-64284,   333-70609,   333-74312,   333-75612,   333-101662,   333-164961, 
 333-164959,   333-164958,   333-111614,   333-179855, 
 333-194948,   333-203130  and  333-215556  on Form  S-8  of our reports dated February 24,
2017, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and the effectiveness of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report
on Form  10-K  of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2016.      /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 24, 2017   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 d303001dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1        FORM  10-K         Year ended
December 31, 2016        Rule
  13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)   Certifications    
   CERTIFICATIONS       I,
Warren E. Buffett, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form  10-K  of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 24, 2017   

/s/    W ARREN  E. B UFFETT     
 
   Chairman Principal Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 d303001dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2        FORM  10-K         Year ended
December 31, 2016        Rule
  13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)   Certifications    
   CERTIFICATIONS       I, Marc
D. Hamburg, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form  10-K  of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules  13a-15(e)  and  15d-15(e))  and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and  15d-15(f))  for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 24, 2017   

/s/    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG     
 
   Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 d303001dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1        FORM  10-K         Section 1350
Certifications        Year ended December 31, 2016    
  I, Warren E. Buffett, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       Dated: February 24, 2017    

/s/    W ARREN  E.
B UFFETT     
 
   Warren E. Buffett    
 
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 d303001dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2        FORM  10-K         Section 1350
Certifications        Year ended December 31, 2016    
  I, Marc D. Hamburg, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify,
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
       Dated: February 24, 2017   

/s/    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG     
 
   Marc D. Hamburg    
 
   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-95>
 9
 d303001dex95.htm
 EX-95

EX-95 

EXHIBIT 95        MINE SAFETY VIOLATIONS AND OTHER LEGAL MATTER DISCLOSURES        PURSUANT TO
SECTION 1503(a) OF THE DODD-FRANK WALL STREET        REFORM AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT    
  PacifiCorp and its subsidiaries operate coal mines and coal processing facilities and Acme Brick and its affiliates operate clay, shale and limestone
excavation facilities (collectively, the  mining facilities ) that are regulated by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration ( MSHA ) under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (the  Mine Safety
Act ). MSHA inspects mining facilities on a regular basis. The total number of reportable Mine Safety Act citations, orders, assessments and legal actions for the year ended December 31, 2016 are summarized in the table below and are
subject to contest and appeal. The severity and assessment of penalties may be reduced or, in some cases, dismissed through the contest and appeal process. Amounts are reported regardless of whether PacifiCorp or Acme has challenged or appealed the
matter. Clay and other reserves that are not yet mined and mines that are closed or idled are not included in the information below as no reportable events occurred at those locations during the year ended December 31, 2016. PacifiCorp and Acme
have not received any notice of a pattern, or notice of the potential to have a pattern, of violations of mandatory health or safety standards that are of such nature as could have significantly and substantially contributed to the cause and effect
of coal or other mine health or safety hazards under Section 104(e) of the Mine Safety Act during the year ended December 31, 2016.       

Mine Safety Act   

Total Value of Proposed MSHA Assessments (in thousands)   

Total Number of Mining Related Fatalities   

Legal Actions   

Mining Facilities    
     
   Section 104 Significant and Substantial Citations  (1)    

Section 104(b) Orders  
(2)    

Section 104(d) Citations/ Orders  (3)

Section 110(b)(2) Violations  
(4)    

Section 107(a) Imminent Danger Orders  (5)    

Pending as of Last Day of Period  (6)    

Instituted During Period   

Resolved During Period   

Coal:   

Bridger (surface)   

5  

$  
  12  

5  

3  

4  

Bridger (underground)   

37  

74  

4  

9  

10  

Wyodak Coal Crushing Facility   

1  

Clay, shale and limestone:   

Malvern   

1  

Wheeler   

Fort Smith   

Oklahoma City   

2  

Tulsa   

Denver   

Bennett   

Denton   

Elgin   

Sealy   

Texas Clay   

Leeds   

1  

Montgomery   

1  

5  

Lueders   

Cordova   

(1  )  
  
    Citations for alleged violations of mandatory health and safety standards that could significantly or substantially contribute to the cause and effect
of a safety or health hazard under Section 104 of the Mine Safety Act.      

(2)    
    For alleged failure to totally abate the subject matter of a Mine Safety Act Section 104(a) citation within the period specified in the citation.

(3)   
      For alleged unwarrantable failure (i.e., aggravated conduct constituting
more than ordinary negligence) to comply with a mandatory health or safety standard.      

(4)   
      For alleged flagrant violations (i.e., reckless or repeated failure to make
reasonable efforts to eliminate a known violation of a mandatory health or safety standard that substantially and proximately caused, or reasonably could have been expected to cause, death or serious bodily injury).      

(5)   
      For the existence of any condition or practice in a coal or other mine which
could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm before such condition or practice can be abated.      

(6)   
      Amounts include six contests of proposed penalties under Subpart C, two
contests of citations or orders under Subpart B and one labor-related complaint under Subpart E of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission s procedural rules. The pending legal actions are not exclusive to citations, notices,
orders and penalties assessed by MSHA during the reporting period.      

</EX-95>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 brka-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 brka-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 brka-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 brka-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 brka-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 brka-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

