<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160219_10-K_edgar_data_1103982_0001193125-16-469394_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18431562</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>423648</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1036591</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3651201</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8248492</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4371114</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>154</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-16-469394.hdr.sgml : 20160219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160219114116
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-16-469394
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		161
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			Mondelez International, Inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001103982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FOOD & KINDRED PRODUCTS [2000]
		IRS NUMBER:				522284372
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-16483
		FILM NUMBER:		161440870

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		THREE PARKWAY NORTH
		CITY:			DEERFIELD
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60015
		BUSINESS PHONE:		847-943-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		THREE PARKWAY NORTH
		CITY:			DEERFIELD
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60015

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	KRAFT FOODS INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20000121

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-16-469394.txt : 20160219

10-K
 1
 d51394d10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES   
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549      FORM 10-K   
  (Mark one)   
 
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015   
   OR       
 
  COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-16483       

Mondel z International, Inc.   
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)      

Virginia  
   
   52-2284372    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of 
 incorporation or organization)  
   
   (I.R.S. Employer 
 Identification No.)   

Three Parkway North, Deerfield, Illinois  
   
  60015   
 
 (Address of principal executive offices) 
   
 (Zip Code)  
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  847-943-4000   
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None    
 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes           No            Note:  Checking the box above will not relieve any
registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act from their obligations under those Sections.    Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    Yes           No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.         
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      

Large accelerated filer        
   
   Accelerated filer         
    
 Non-accelerated filer        
   
 Smaller reporting company         

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes           No           The aggregate market value of the shares of Class A Common Stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price of such stock on June 30, 2015, was $66 billion. At February 12, 2016, there were 1,568,858,264 shares of the registrant s Class A Common Stock outstanding.  
  Documents Incorporated by Reference     Portions of
the registrant s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders expected to be held on May 18, 2016 are incorporated by reference into Part III
hereof.          

Mondel z International, Inc.    

Page No.   

Part I        

Item 1.  
     
     Business    

1  

Item 1A.  
     
     Risk Factors    

10  

Item 1B.  
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

18  

Item 2.  
     
     Properties    

19  

Item 3.  
     
     Legal Proceedings    

19  

Item 4.  
     
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

19  

Part II        

Item 5.  
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    

20  

Item 6.  
     
     Selected Financial Data    

22  

Item 7.  
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:    

23  

Summary of Results    

25  

Financial Outlook    

25  

Discussion and Analysis of Historical Results    

27  

Critical Accounting Estimates    

44  

Commodity Trends    

47  

Liquidity and Capital Resources    

47  

Equity and Dividends    

48  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations    

49  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures    

50  

Item 7A.  
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

57  

Item 8.  
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:    

59  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    

59  

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013    

60  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings for the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and
2013    

61  

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014    

62  

Consolidated Statements of Equity for the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013    

63  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013    

64  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

65  

Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

119  

Item 9A.  
     
     Controls and Procedures    

119  

Item 9B.  
     
     Other Information    

120  

Part III        

Item 10.  
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

121  

Item 11.  
     
     Executive Compensation    

121  

Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

121  

Item 13.  
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

121  

Item 14.  
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

121  

Part IV        

Item 15.  
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

122  

Signatures    

127  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule    

S-1  

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    

S-2  
       
    In this report, for all periods presented,  we,   us,   our,   the Company  and
 Mondel z International  refer to Mondel z International, Inc. and subsidiaries. References to  Common Stock  refer to our Class A Common Stock.   

Forward-Looking Statements   
 This report contains a number of forward-looking statements. Words, and variations of words, such as  will,   may,   expect, 
 would,   intend,   plan,   believe,   likely,   estimate,   anticipate,   project,   potential,   might,   outlook  and similar
expressions are intended to identify our forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements about: our future performance, including our future revenue growth and margins; our strategy, including our goals to deliver top-tier
financial performance and be a great place to work; price volatility and pricing actions; the cost environment and measures to address increased costs; our transformation agenda; the costs of, cost savings generated by, timing of expenditures under
and completion of our restructuring programs; our market-leading positions; snack food consumption trends; growth in our snacks business, Power Brands, categories and markets; actions to improve our revenue mix; volatility in global markets;
commodity prices and supply; economic conditions; currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions; our expansion plans; our operations in Venezuela and Argentina; pension liabilities related to the coffee business transactions; the significance
of the coffee category to our future results; our investment in Keurig, the completion of the transaction, and our ownership interests and governance rights in JDE and Keurig following the transaction; completion of our biscuit operation
acquisition; legal matters; changes in laws and regulations and regulatory compliance; environmental compliance and remediation actions; our properties; the estimated value of goodwill and intangible assets; impairment of goodwill and intangible
assets and our projections of operating results and other factors that may affect our impairment testing; our accounting estimates and judgments; remediation of the material weakness; pension expenses, contributions and assumptions; employee benefit
plan expenses, obligations and assumptions; relationships with employees and representatives; our sustainability initiatives; tax positions; our liquidity, funding sources and uses of funding; reinvestment of earnings; our risk management program,
including the use of financial instruments and the effectiveness of our for hedging activities; capital expenditures and funding; share repurchases; dividends; compliance with financial and long-term debt covenants; guarantees and our contractual
obligations.    These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those described in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, risks from operating globally including in emerging markets; changes in currency exchange rates, controls and restrictions;
continued volatility of commodity and other input costs; weakness in economic conditions; weakness in consumer spending; pricing actions; unanticipated disruptions to our business; competition; acquisitions and divestitures, the restructuring
program and our other transformation initiatives not yielding the anticipated benefits; changes in the assumptions on which the restructuring program is based; protection of our reputation and brand image; management of our workforce; consolidation
of retail customers and competition with retailer and other economy brands; changes in our relationships with suppliers or customers; legal, regulatory, tax or benefit law changes, claims or actions; strategic transactions; our ability to innovate
and differentiate our products; significant changes in valuation factors that may adversely affect our impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets; perceived or actual product quality issues or product recalls; failure to maintain effective
internal control over financial reporting; volatility of capital or other markets; pension costs; use of information technology and third party service providers; our ability to protect our intellectual property and intangible assets; a shift in our
pre-tax income among jurisdictions, including the United States; and tax law changes. We disclaim and do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this report except as required by applicable law or
regulation.       PART 
I        Item 1. Business.      General
    We are one of the world s largest snack companies with global net revenues of $29.6 billion and earnings from continuing operations of $7.3 billion in
2015. We manufacture and market delicious snack food and beverage products for consumers in 165 countries around the world. Our portfolio includes seven billion dollar brands  Nabisco ,  Oreo and LU  biscuits;  Cadbury, Cadbury
Dairy Milk  and  Milka  chocolates; and  Trident  gum, as well as 51 brands that each generated annual revenues of $100 million or more in 2015.    We
are proud members of the NASDAQ 100 and Standard   Poor s 500. Our Common Stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  MDLZ.  We have been incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia since 2000.  
      1  

We have been recognized for our ongoing economic, environmental and social contributions and this year were listed again on
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index ( DJSI )   World and North American Indices. The DJSI selects the top 10% of global companies and top 20% of North American companies based on an extensive review of financial and sustainability
programs within each industry. We also participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate and Water forums and continue to disclose and work to reduce our carbon and water footprints. We are committed to continue this and other related work in the
areas of sustainable resources and agriculture, mindful snacking, community partnerships and safety of our products and people.     Strategy   
 We intend to leverage our core strengths, including our advantaged geographic footprint, market leadership positions and portfolio of iconic brands and innovation
platforms, to achieve two primary goals: deliver top-tier financial performance and be a great place to work. Top-tier financial performance aims to achieve sustainable top- and bottom-line growth, driven by our transformation agenda, which includes
focusing our portfolio, reducing costs and investing for growth. We plan to achieve these goals by executing five long-term strategies:      

Unleash the Power of Our People.  We believe that our two primary goals of delivering top-tier financial performance and being a great place to work are interdependent and that one is not fully achievable without
the other. Being a great place to work enables us to recruit, retain and unleash the talents of great people. We remain focused on evolving our ways of working, our standards of leadership and the development opportunities available to our
colleagues.        

Transform Snacking . Driving growth is at the forefront of our long-term business strategies. By meeting the needs of consumers through innovation of our portfolio of products, we expect to grow and maintain our
Power Brands and market-leading positions.      Our global Power Brands continue to be a significant competitive advantage. Our Power
Brands include global brands such as  Oreo, LU  and  belVita  biscuits;  Milka ,  Cadbury Dairy Milk and Lacta  chocolate;  Halls  candy;  Trident  gum; and  Tang  powdered beverages. Our brands enable us to
fulfill consumer needs with a full range of snacking choices. Along with leveraging our global innovation platforms, we offer a full range of snacking choices that address the different needs of our consumers and quickly adapt successful products
from one market to others. For example, in early 2015 we acquired Enjoy Life Foods, which creates allergen-free and better for you snacks such as  Plentils  gluten-free chips and  Enjoy Life  nut-free chocolate and seed   fruit
products. We are developing plans to expand this business within and outside of the North America region.    In 2015, we also transformed our business
portfolio following the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. On July 2, 2015, we combined our global coffee business with D.E Master Blenders 1753 B.V. ( DEMB ) to form Jacobs Douwe Egberts ( JDE ), a new coffee venture
in which we maintain a noncontrolling interest. Following the transactions, our snacks net revenues from biscuits, chocolate, gum and candy were approximately 85% of our 2015 net revenues excluding coffee net revenues. We will continue to have a
significant stake in the coffee category, but holding our interest in the coffee venture as an investment will allow us to focus to a greater degree on our snacks portfolio and make operating and sales decisions that will help us to grow the snacks
business.    To strengthen how we support and leverage our snacks portfolio, we created a Chief Growth Officer role in 2014 to focus on top-line
revenue growth opportunities. Beginning in January 2016, we also have a new Chief Commercial Officer. The Chief Commercial Officer is responsible for the execution of the Company s commercial plan with oversight over the global sales function
and delivery of growth plans by the five regions. This structure will focus us further on pursuing and executing on opportunities through which we can drive the most attractive returns.  

Revolutionize Selling.  As part of our focus on growth around the world and particularly in emerging markets, we continue to invest heavily in our routes to market and sales capabilities across key markets, and we
have made significant improvements in our marketing effectiveness and spending. In 2015, we acquired an 80% interest in a biscuit operation in Vietnam that expanded our routes to market in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, we have also
invested in expanding our brand presence across digital media and have placed increased focus on e-commerce. Effective spending on advertising and marketing fuels our brands and strengthens our growth strategies for the business.    
      2  

Drive Efficiency to Fuel Growth.  We manage our business through a virtuous cycle. To drive sales and earnings growth, we focus first on delivering high quality products that meet consumer needs. We expand our
margins through leveraging lean and simple cost management programs within our integrated supply chain and through overhead discipline. We reinvest a portion of these savings to pursue additional targeted growth opportunities within our portfolio.

Protect the Well-being of Our Planet.  We are committed to growing our business while protecting our planet and its people. We strive to enhance the well-being of the people who enjoy and make our products and to
nurture communities where we live, work and grow the ingredients that go into our products. To accomplish these objectives, we focus on delivering safe, high-quality foods and maintaining a safe work environment for our employees. We work to protect
resources, focusing on where we can have the greatest impact. We also make food that fits the way people eat today and provides balanced snacking choices.    
 Our  Call For Well-Being  initiative focuses on four areas that we believe will have the greatest impact: sustainability, mindful snacking,
safety and community partnerships. In each of these areas, we set clear goals and metrics. In 2015, we announced our  Sustainability 2020  goals, including reducing absolute carbon dioxide emissions; reducing deforestation within our
agricultural supply chain; focusing water-reduction efforts in high-priority locations; reducing packaging material; and reducing total manufacturing waste.  
  Reportable Segments     Our operations and management structure are organized
into five reportable operating segments:  

Latin America    

Asia Pacific    

Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa ( EEMEA )    

Europe    

North America      We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing
business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise in our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions.  
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with the accounting for our deconsolidated coffee business and related investment in JDE, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment
earnings outside of segment operating income. For the six months ended December 31, 2015, after-tax equity method investment net earnings were less than $1 million on a combined basis. Earnings from equity method investments through July 2,
2015 recorded within segment operating income were $49 million in Asia Pacific, $3 million in EEMEA and $4 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2014 these earnings were $98 million in Asia Pacific, $6 million in EEMEA and
$9 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2013 these earnings were $99 million in Asia Pacific, $7 million in EEMEA and $1 million in North America. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Principles
of Consolidation , for additional information.    In 2015, we also began to report stock-based compensation for our corporate employees, which was previously
reported within our North America region, within general corporate expenses. We reclassified $32 million of corporate stock-based compensation expense out of the North America segment in 2015.  
 Our segment net revenues for each of the last three years were:       

3  

Currency, the deconsolidation of our global coffee business and other items significantly affect the comparability of our
consolidated and segment operating results from year to year. Please see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for a review of our operating results.  
 Our brands span five product categories:  

Biscuits (including cookies, crackers and salted snacks)    

Chocolate    

Gum   candy    

Beverages (including coffee through July 2, 2015 and powdered beverages)    

Cheese   grocery      During 2015, our segments contributed to our net revenues in these product categories as
follows:       

(1) 
 On July 2, 2015, as part of the JDE coffee transactions, we deconsolidated our global coffee businesses primarily from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segment beverage categories. Our 2015 net revenues reflect
our coffee business through July 2, 2015. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information.    
 Within our product categories, the classes of products that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net revenues were:  

(1) 
 During 2014, we realigned some of our products across product categories and as such, we reclassified the product category net revenues on a basis consistent with the 2015 presentation.    
 We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze
segment performance and trends. For a definition and reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated pre-tax earnings as well as other information on our segments, see Note 17,  Segment Reporting .  
 Our segment operating income for each of the last three years was:       

4  

During the last three fiscal years, our segments contributed to segment operating income as reflected below.  

Significant Divestitures and Acquisitions   
 For information on our significant divestitures and acquisitions, please refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  and specifically, in connection with our
global coffee business deconsolidation, see our discussion under  Coffee Business Transactions .     Customers   
 No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2015. Our five largest customers accounted for 17% and our ten largest
customers accounted for 24% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2015.     Seasonality   
 Demand for our products is generally balanced over the first three quarters of the year and increases in the fourth quarter primarily because of holidays and other
seasonal events.     Competition     We face competition in all aspects of our
business. Competitors include large multi-national as well as numerous local and regional companies. Some competitors have different profit objectives than we do and therefore approach pricing and promotional decisions differently. We compete based
on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks,
promotional activity and price. Improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial research, development, advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe these investments lead to better products for the consumer
and support our growth and market position.     Distribution and Marketing   
 Across our segments, we generally sell our products to supermarket chains, wholesalers, supercenters, club stores, mass merchandisers, distributors, convenience stores,
gasoline stations, drug stores, value stores and other retail food outlets. We distribute our products through direct store delivery, company-owned and satellite warehouses, distribution centers and other facilities. We also use the services of
independent sales offices and agents in some of our international locations.    We also sell our products on a growing number of e-commerce platforms as consumer
consumption patterns change (reflecting greater consumer time compression and technology use) and retail increasingly expands online. Within our digital and social marketing, we also create opportunities for consumers to easily find and buy our
products online. We have built relationships with several retailers to develop customized programs that fit their and our formats and provide consumers additional personalized offerings from our snacks portfolio.  
 We conduct marketing efforts through three principal sets of activities: (i) consumer marketing and advertising including on-air, print, outdoor, digital and
social media and other product promotions; (ii) consumer sales incentives such as coupons and rebates; and (iii) trade promotions to support price features, displays and other merchandising of our products by our customers.  
      5  

Raw Materials and Packaging     We
purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to
package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. We regularly monitor worldwide supply, cost and currency trends related to these commodities so we can cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and
energy sources required for production.    A number of external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and
governmental agricultural programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials. However,
we cannot fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs.    While the
costs of our principal raw materials fluctuate, we believe there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources. For additional information on our commodity
costs, refer to the  Commodity Trends  section within  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations .  
  Intellectual Property     Our intellectual property rights (including
trademarks, patents, copyrights, registered designs, proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how) are material to our business.   We own numerous trademarks
and patents in many countries around the world. Depending on the country, trademarks remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms.
We also have patents for a number of current and potential products. Our patents cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. Our issued patents extend for
varying periods according to the date of patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to
country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the
loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.   From time to time, we grant third parties licenses to use
one or more of our trademarks in connection with the manufacture, sale or distribution of third party products. Similarly, we sell some products under brands we license from third parties. In our agreement with Kraft Foods Group, Inc.
( Kraft Foods Group  which is now part of The Kraft Heinz Company), we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions following the spin-off of
our North American grocery business.     Research and Development     We
pursue four objectives in research and development: product safety and quality, growth through new products, superior consumer satisfaction and reduced costs. Our innovation efforts focus on anticipating consumer demands and adapting quickly to
changing market trends. Wellness products and healthy snacking are a significant focus of our current research and development initiatives. These initiatives aim to accelerate our growth and margins by addressing consumer needs and market trends and
leveraging our global innovation platforms, Power Brands and breakthrough technologies.    At December 31, 2015, we had approximately 2,450 scientists and
engineers, of which approximately 1,900 are primarily focused on research and development and the remainder are primarily focused on quality assurance and regulatory affairs. Our major technology centers are located in: East Hanover, New Jersey;
Whippany, New Jersey; Bournville, United Kingdom; Curitiba, Brazil; Paris, France; Melbourne, Australia; Mexico City, Mexico; Munich, Germany; Reading, United Kingdom; Thane, India; and Suzhou, China. Our research and development expense was $409
million in 2015, $455 million in 2014 and $471 million in 2013. Our total research and development expense was lower in 2015 primarily due to the deconsolidation of our global coffee business, currency and cost optimization initiatives.  
      6  

Regulation     Our food products
and ingredients are subject to local, national and multi-national regulations related to labeling, packaging, pricing, marketing and advertising, privacy and related areas. In addition, various jurisdictions regulate our operations by licensing and
inspecting our manufacturing plants and facilities, enforcing standards for selected food products, grading food products, and regulating trade practices related to the sale and pricing of our food products. Many of the food commodities we use in
our operations are subject to government agricultural policy and intervention. These policies have substantial effects on prices and supplies and are subject to periodic governmental and administrative review.  
 Examples of laws and regulations that affect our business include selective food taxes, nutritional labeling requirements and marketing restrictions in markets such as
Europe and Latin America; Russian sanctions on the sourcing of raw materials from the European Union and potential labeling disclosure requirements for genetically modified ingredients in the United States. We will continue to monitor developments
in laws and regulations. At this time, we do not expect the cost of complying with new laws and regulations will be material. Also refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary
Accounting , for additional information on government regulations and currency-related impacts on our operations in Argentina, Russia and other countries.  
  Environmental Regulation     Throughout the countries in which we do business,
we are subject to local, national and multi-national environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We have programs across our business units designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. In
the United States, the laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ( CERCLA ). CERCLA imposes
joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. As of December 31, 2015, we had resolved the one active proceeding in the United States under a state equivalent of CERCLA related to our current operations. As of
December 31, 2015, we accrued an immaterial amount for the remaining payments related to this resolution. Based on information currently available, we believe that our compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material
effect on our financial results.     Employees     We employed approximately
99,000 people worldwide at December 31, 2015 and approximately 104,000 at December 31, 2014. Approximately 5,000 employees transferred to JDE in connection with the global coffee business transactions, and we also added approximately 6,000
employees due to acquisitions in 2015. Employees represented by labor unions or workers  councils represent approximately 65% of our 87,000 employees outside the United States and approximately 30% of our 12,000 U.S. employees. Our business
units are subject to various local, national and multi-national laws and regulations relating to their relationships with their employees. In accordance with European Union requirements, we also have established a European Workers Council composed
of management and elected members of our workforce. We believe we generally have good relationships with our employees and their representative organizations.  
  Foreign Operations     We generated 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues, 82.1% of
our 2014 net revenues and 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues from continuing operations outside the United States. We sell our products to consumers in 165 countries. At December 31, 2015, we had operations in more than 80 countries and made our
products at 156 manufacturing and processing facilities in 57 countries. Refer to Note 17,  Segment Reporting,  for additional information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Refer to Item 2,  Properties , for more information on our
manufacturing and other facilities. Also, for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the United States, see  Risk Factors  in Item 1A.  
      7  

Executive Officers of the Registrant   
 The following are our executive officers as of February 19, 2016:       

Name   
   
    Age   
   
    Title    

Irene B. Rosenfeld 
   
 62 
   
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
 
 Brian T. Gladden 
   
 50 
   
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
 
 Gustavo H. Abelenda 
   
 55 
   
 Executive Vice President and President, Latin America  
 
 Maurizio Brusadelli 
   
 47 
   
 Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific  
 
 Mark A. Clouse 
   
 47 
   
 Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer  
 
 Timothy P. Cofer 
   
 47 
   
 Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer  
 
 Roberto de Oliveira Marques 
   
 50 
   
 Executive Vice President and President, North America  
 
 Robin S. Hargrove 
   
 50 
   
 Executive Vice President, Research, Development and Quality  
 
 Lawrence MacDougall 
   
 59 
   
 Executive Vice President and President, EEMEA  
 
 Karen J. May 
   
 57 
   
 Executive Vice President, Human Resources  
 
 Daniel P. Myers 
   
 60 
   
 Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain  
 
 Gerhard W. Pleuhs 
   
 59 
   
 Executive Vice President and General Counsel  
 
 Hubert Weber 
   
 53 
   
 Executive Vice President and President, Europe  
 
   Ms. Rosenfeld  became Chief Executive Officer and Director in June 2006 and became Chairman of the Board in March 2007.
Prior to that, she served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Frito-Lay, a division of PepsiCo, Inc., a food and beverage company, from September 2004 to June 2006. Ms. Rosenfeld was employed continuously by
Mondel z International and its predecessor, General Foods Corporation, in various capacities from 1981 until 2003, including President of Kraft Foods North America and President of Operations, Technology, Information Systems and Kraft
Foods, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico.     Mr. Gladden  became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in December 2014. He joined
Mondel z International in October 2014. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Dell Inc., a provider of technology products and services, from June 2008 until February 2014, and as President and
Chief Executive Officer of SABIC Innovative Plastics, a manufacturer of industrial plastics, from August 2007 to May 2008. Mr. Gladden spent 19 years at the General Electric Company, a multinational conglomerate, in a variety of key leadership
positions, including Vice President and General Manager, Resin Business and Chief Financial Officer, GE Plastics.     Mr. Abelenda  became Executive Vice
President and President, Latin America in January 2013. Prior to that, he served as Group Vice President and President, Latin America from August 2003 to December 2012, Vice President and Managing Director, Brazil from October 2000 to August 2003,
Food Vice President, Mercosur Area from April 1998 to October 2000 and General Manager, Brazilian Beverages and Sugar Confectionery Business from February 1997 to April 1998. Mr. Abelenda joined Mondel z International in 1984.  
  Mr. Brusadelli  became Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific in January 2016. He previously served as President Biscuits Business, South East
Asia, Japan and Sales Asia Pacific from September 2015 to December 2015, President Markets and Sales Asia Pacific from September 2014 to September 2015, President United Kingdom and Ireland from September 2012 to August 2014 and President
Gum   Candy Europe from December 2010 until August 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Brusadelli held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. Mr. Brusadelli joined Mondel z International in 1993.  
  Mr. Clouse  became Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in January 2016. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Growth
Officer from July 2014 until December 2015 and Executive Vice President and President, North America from October 2012 to March 2015. He was President of the Snacks and Confectionery business in North America from June 2011 to October 2012, Senior
Vice President of the Biscuits Global Category Team from October 2010 to June 2011, Managing Director of Kraft Foods Brazil from January 2008 to September 2010 and President of Kraft Foods Greater China from January 2006 to January 2008. Prior to
that, Mr. Clouse held various positions of increasing responsibility around the world. Before joining Mondel z International in 1996, Mr. Clouse served in the United States Army for seven years, obtaining the rank of Captain.  
      8  

Mr. Cofer  became Executive Vice President and Chief Growth Officer in January 2016. Prior to that, he served as
Executive Vice President and President, Asia Pacific and EEMEA from September 2013 until December 2015, Executive Vice President and President, Europe from August 2011 until September 2013, Senior Vice President, Global Chocolate Category from June
2010 to August 2011, Senior Vice President, Strategy and Integration from January 2010 to June 2010, President of Pizza from January 2008 to January 2010, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Oscar Mayer from January 2007 to January 2008 and
Vice President and General Manager of EU Chocolate from June 2003 to January 2007. Mr. Cofer joined Mondel z International in 1992.     Mr. de
Oliveira Marques  became Executive Vice President and President, North America in March 2015. Prior to joining Mondel z International, Mr. de Oliveira Marques worked at Johnson   Johnson, a global manufacturer of human health
and well-being related products, for 27 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Company Group Chairman, Consumer North America from January 2011 to February 2015 and as Company Group Chairman, Consumer Health Care, Global Design
Unit from April 2007 to December 2010.     Mr. Hargrove  became Executive Vice President, Research, Development   Quality in April 2015. Prior to
that, he served as Senior Vice President, Research, Development   Quality for Mondel z Europe from January 2013 to March 2015. Before joining Mondel z International, Mr. Hargrove worked at PepsiCo, Inc., a global food and
beverage company, for 19 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently as Senior Vice President, Research and Development, Europe from December 2006 to December 2012.  
  Mr. MacDougall  became Executive Vice President and President, EEMEA in July 2014. Prior to that, he served as President, EEMEA from November 2012 to July
2014 and as President, Middle East and Africa from March 2010 to October 2012. Prior to its acquisition by Mondel z International, Mr. MacDougall was continuously employed by Cadbury Pty Ltd, a confectionery company, for 28 years in
various leadership positions, most recently serving as President, Middle East and Africa from February 2007 to February 2010.     Ms. May  became Executive
Vice President, Human Resources in October 2005. Prior to that, she was Corporate Vice President, Human Resources for Baxter International Inc., a healthcare company, from February 2001 to September 2005.  
  Mr. Myers  became Executive Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain in September 2011. Prior to that, he worked for Procter   Gamble, a consumer
products company, for 33 years in a variety of leadership positions, most recently serving as Vice President, Product Supply for P G s Global Hair Care business from September 2007 to August 2011.  
  Mr. Pleuhs  became Executive Vice President and General Counsel in April 2012. In this role, Mr. Pleuhs oversees the legal, compliance, security,
corporate and governance affairs functions within Mondel z International. Previously, Mr. Pleuhs served as Senior Vice President   Deputy General Counsel, Business Units from November 2007 to March 2012 and Senior Vice President
and Deputy General Counsel, International for Kraft Foods Global, Inc. from July 2004 to November 2007. Before joining Mondel z International in 1990, Mr. Pleuhs held a number of senior positions within the German Law Department of Jacobs
Kaffee Deutschland GmbH, an international beverage and confectionery company, prior to and after its acquisition by Altria Group, the former parent company of Mondel z International. Mr. Pleuhs has a law degree from the University of Kiel,
Germany and is licensed to practice law in Germany.     Mr. Weber  became Executive Vice President and President Europe in September 2013. Prior to that, he
served as President of the European and Global Coffee category from September 2010 until September 2013, President of the DACH region (Germany, Austria and Switzerland) from February 2009 to August 2010, Managing Director, Spain from August 2007 to
January 2009, Vice President of Global Tassimo Venture Team from July 2004 to July 2007 and Senior Director, International Sales, Kraft Foods International from January 2000 to June 2004. Mr. Weber joined Mondel z International in
1988.    
      9  

Ethics and Governance     We
adopted the Mondel z International Code of Conduct, which qualifies as a code of ethics under Item 406 of Regulation S-K. The code applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Our code of ethics is available free of charge on our web site at  www.mondelezinternational.com  and will be provided free of charge to any
shareholder submitting a written request to: Corporate Secretary, Mondel z International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015. We will disclose any waiver we grant to an executive officer or director under our code of ethics, or
certain amendments to the code of ethics, on our web site at  www.mondelezinternational.com .    In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines,
charters for each of the Board s four standing committees and the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Non-Employee Directors. All of these materials are available on our web site at  www.mondelezinternational.com  and will be provided
free of charge to any shareholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Mondel z International, Inc., Three Parkway North, Deerfield, IL 60015.  
  Available Information     Our Internet address is
 www.mondelezinternational.com . Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), are available free of charge as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). You can
access our filings with the SEC by visiting  www.mondelezinternational.com . The information on our web site is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with
the SEC.       Item 1A.   Risk Factors.   
  You should read the following risk factors carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe we have identified and discussed
below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we do not currently believe to be significant that may adversely affect our business, performance or financial
condition in the future.      We operate in a highly competitive industry.   
 The food and snacking industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in
multiple geographic areas as well as numerous local and regional companies. We compete based on product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, service, product innovation, taste, convenience, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer
preferences, effectiveness of sales and marketing, routes to market and distribution networks, promotional activity and price. If we do not effectively respond to challenges from our competitors, our business could be adversely affected.  
 Competitor and customer pressures may require that we reduce our prices. These pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and
other cost increases. Failure to effectively assess, change and set proper pricing may negatively impact the achievement of our strategic and financial goals. The emergence of new distribution channels, such as Internet sales directly to consumers,
may affect customer and consumer preferences, cost structures or margins, and we might not achieve our goal of developing and building an industry-leading e-commerce snacks business on our planned timeframe. We may also need to increase or
reallocate spending on marketing, advertising and new product innovation to protect or increase market share. These expenditures might not result in trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. If we reduce prices or our costs increase but we
cannot increase sales volumes to offset those changes, then our financial condition and results of operations will suffer.    In addition, companies in our industry
are under increasing pressure to improve the efficiency of their overall cost structures. We have announced a transformation agenda with the goals of focusing our portfolio, improving our cost structure and operating model, and accelerating our
growth. If we do not achieve these objectives and do so in a way that minimizes disruptions to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  
      10  

Maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image is essential to our business success.   
 Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands into new geographies and to new distribution platforms,
including online, and expand our brand image with new product offerings.    We seek to maintain, extend and expand our brand image through marketing investments,
including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing attention from the media, shareholders, consumers, activists and other stakeholders on
the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image. Undue caution on our part in addressing these challenges could weaken our competitive position. Such pressures could also lead to stricter regulations and increased focus on food and
snacking marketing practices. Increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. Moreover,
adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, product quality and safety, or environmental and human rights risks in our supply chain could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers  confidence and reduce
demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or these matters are immaterial to our operations.    In addition, our success in
maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing marketing and media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of marketing and advertising
campaigns. We are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions on how and to whom we market our products. These restrictions may limit our ability to maintain, extend and expand our brand image, particularly as social media and the
communications environment continue to evolve. Negative posts or comments about us on social networking web sites (whether factual or not) or security breaches related to use of our social media and failure to respond effectively to these posts,
comments or activities could seriously damage our reputation and brand image across the various regions in which we operate. In addition, we might fail to invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image. As a result, we
might be required to recognize impairment charges on our intangible assets or goodwill. If we do not successfully maintain, extend and expand our reputation and brand image, then our brands, product sales, financial condition and results of
operations could be materially and adversely affected.     We are subject to risks from operating globally.   
 We are a global company and generated 78.7% of our 2015 net revenues, 82.1% of our 2014 net revenues and 83.1% of our 2013 net revenues outside the United States. We
manufacture and market our products in 165 countries and have operations in more than 80 countries. Therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. Those risks include:  

compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, including anti-bribery laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA     

compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes;    

changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes;    

currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values, including in developing markets such as Argentina, Brazil, China, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine as well as in developed markets such as countries within the
European Union;    

changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from
outside the United States;    

discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies;    

increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit ratings of governments, particularly in our Latin America and EEMEA regions;    

changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other
resources;    

varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights;    

greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles;    

design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base; and    

the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales.    
      11  

In addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political
unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. The slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment
in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. Continued instability in the banking and governmental sectors of certain countries or the dynamics
associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the United States could adversely affect us. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales,
financial condition and results of operations.     Our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks.   
 Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets, including Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Russia, Argentina, Ukraine, the
Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. However, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. In many countries,
particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, or local anti-bribery laws. These laws
generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. Failure to comply
with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.  
 In addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their
production capacities. Our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. If we cannot successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales,
financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, such as the current year impact of deconsolidating and changing to the cost method of accounting for our Venezuelan operations as discussed in this Form 10-K or any potential
impact on our business in Venezuela from future economic or political developments.     Unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to
provide our products to our customers.     We manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. We have a complex network of suppliers and materials
needs, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. Factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control,
like weather, natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers  or co-manufacturers 
operations. If we do not effectively respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information,
production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. If that occurs, we may lose our customers  confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. In addition, we
might not have the functions, processes or organizational capability necessary to achieve on our anticipated timeframes our strategic ambition to reconfigure our supply chain and drive efficiencies to fuel growth. Further, changes to regulatory
restrictions within the markets in which we operate may impact our ability to supply multiple markets with a streamlined manufacturing footprint. These events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results
of operations.     We are subject to currency exchange rate fluctuations.   
 At December 31, 2015, we sold our products in 165 countries and had operations in more than 80 countries. A significant portion of our business is exposed to
currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial results and capital ratios are sensitive to movements in currency exchange rates because a large portion of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses must be translated into U.S. dollars for
reporting purposes or converted into U.S. dollars to service obligations such as our U.S. dollar-denominated indebtedness and dividends. In addition, movements in currency exchange rates can affect transaction costs because we source product
ingredients from various countries. We seek to mitigate our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, primarily on cross-currency transactions, but our efforts may not be successful. Accordingly, changes in the currency exchange rates that we use to
translate our results into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes or for transactions involving multiple currencies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  
      12  

Commodity and other input prices are volatile and may increase or decrease significantly or availability of commodities
may become constrained.     We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including cocoa, dairy, wheat, corn products, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar
and other sweeteners, and nuts. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of packaging materials to package our products and natural gas, fuels and electricity for our factories and warehouses. Prices for these raw materials, other
supplies and energy are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict. These conditions include global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, political conditions, severe weather, the potential longer-term
consequences of climate change on agricultural productivity, crop disease or pests, water risk, health pandemics, consumer or industrial demand, and changes in governmental trade, alternative energy and agricultural programs. Many of the commodities
we purchase are grown by smallholder farmers, who might lack the capacity to invest to increase productivity or adapt to changing conditions. Although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and hedge against input price increases, we cannot
fully hedge against changes in commodity costs, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. Continued volatility in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase or decrease
the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer as a result. Moreover, increases in the price of our products, including increases to cover higher input costs may result in lower sales volumes, while decreases in input costs could
require us to lower our prices and thereby affect our revenues, profits or margins. Likewise, constraints in the supply of key commodities may limit our ability to grow our net revenues and earnings. If our mitigation activities are not effective,
if we are unable to price to cover increased costs or must reduce our prices, or if we are limited by supply constraints, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  
  Changes in and inconsistencies among laws and regulations in many countries in which we operate could increase our costs.   
 Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. Various laws and regulations govern food production, storage,
distribution, sales, advertising and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, labor, tax and environmental matters, and health and safety practices. Government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. Our
compliance with new or revised laws and regulations or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.  
  We may be unable to hire or retain and develop key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce or manage changes in our workforce.   
 We must hire, retain and develop effective leaders and a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. We compete to hire new personnel in the many countries in which we
manufacture and market our products and then to develop and retain their skills and competencies. Unplanned turnover or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions or hire and retain a diverse global workforce with the
skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness.    We also face
increased personnel-related risks in connection with implementing the changes in our transformation agenda related to our operating model and business processes, including building a global shared services capability. These risks could lead to
operational challenges, including increased competition for employees with the skills we require to achieve our business goals, higher employee turnover, including of employees with key capabilities, and challenges in developing the capabilities
necessary to build a shared services function and transform our business processes. Furthermore, we might be unable to manage changes in, or that affect, our workforce appropriately or satisfy the legal requirements associated with how we manage and
compensate our employees. This includes our management of employees represented by labor unions or workers  councils, who represent approximately 65% of our 87,000 employees outside the United States and approximately 30% of our 12,000 U.S.
employees.    These risks could materially and adversely affect our reputation, ability to meet the needs of our customers, product sales, financial condition and
results of operations.  
      13  

We must address risks related to consolidation of retail customers and leverage our value proposition in order to
compete against retailer and other economy brands.     Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in the European Union, the
United States and our other major markets, continue to consolidate or form buying alliances, resulting in fewer but larger customers with whom we can conduct business. Larger, more sophisticated retail customers and alliances among customers can
resist price increases, delist or reduce the shelf space allotted to our products, and demand lower pricing, increased promotional programs, longer payment terms or specifically tailored products. Retail customers might also adopt these tactics in
their dealings with us in response to the significant growth in online retailing for consumer products, which is outpacing the growth of traditional retail channels. In addition, larger retail customers have the scale to develop supply chains that
permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer and other economy brands that compete with some of our products. Our products must provide higher quality or value to our consumers than the less expensive
alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Consumers may not buy our products if consumers perceive the difference in the quality or value between our products and the retailer or other economy brands has narrowed. If
consumers switch to purchasing or otherwise prefer the retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or need to shift our product mix to lower margin offerings.  
 Retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers  business operations or financial performance will have a corresponding material
adverse effect on us. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases.  
 If we do not effectively respond to retail consolidation, increasing retail power and competition from retailer and other economy brands, our reputation, brands,
product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.     We are subject to and may fail to manage changes in our
relationships with significant customers or suppliers.     During 2015, our five largest customers accounted for 17.0% of our net revenues. There can be no
assurance that our customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers continue to demand lower pricing and develop their own brands. The
loss of or disruptions related to significant customers, such as the disruptions we experienced in 2014 with customers in France, could result in a material reduction in sales or change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer. This
could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations.    Additionally, disputes with significant suppliers,
including those related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers or operate our business and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of
operations.     We may decide or be required to recall products or be subjected to product liability claims.   
 We could decide, or laws or regulations could require us, to recall products due to suspected or confirmed and deliberate or unintentional product contamination,
spoilage or other adulteration, product misbranding or product tampering. In addition, if another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall
consumption of products in this category. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.  
 We may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness or death. In addition, our
marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. A significant product liability or other legal judgment against us, a related regulatory enforcement action or a widespread product recall could materially and
adversely affect our reputation and profitability. Moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could
materially and adversely affect our reputation, brands, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.  
      14  

We could be subject to legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions.   
 We are a large snack food company operating in highly regulated environments and constantly evolving legal, tax and regulatory frameworks around the world.
Consequently, we are subject to greater risk of litigation, legal or tax claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate policies and procedures we have implemented
to promote compliance with existing laws and regulations. Moreover, our failure to maintain effective control environment processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. Litigation, legal or tax claims or
regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or controls could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product
sales, financial condition and results of operations.     We may not successfully identify, complete or manage strategic transactions.   
 We regularly evaluate a variety of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, minority investments and other strategic
alliances that could further our strategic business objectives. We may not successfully identify, complete or manage the risks presented by these strategic transactions. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to identify suitable
transactions; negotiate favorable contractual terms; comply with applicable regulations and receive necessary consents, clearances and approvals (including regulatory and antitrust clearances and approvals); integrate or separate businesses; realize
the full extent of the benefits, cost savings or synergies presented by strategic transactions; effectively implement control environment processes with employees joining us as a result of a transaction; minimize adverse effects on existing business
relationships with suppliers and customers; achieve accurate estimates of fair value; minimize potential loss of customers or key employees; and minimize indemnities and potential disputes with buyers, sellers and strategic partners. In addition,
execution or oversight of strategic transactions may result in the diversion of management attention from our existing business and may present financial, managerial and operational risks.  
 With respect to acquisitions and joint ventures in particular, we are also exposed to potential risks based on our ability to conform standards, controls, policies and
procedures, and business cultures; consolidate and streamline operations and infrastructures; identify and eliminate redundant and underperforming operations and assets; manage inefficiencies associated with the integration of operations; and
coordinate antitrust and competition laws in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions. Joint ventures and strategic alliances pose additional risks, as we share ownership and management responsibilities with one or more other
parties who may not have the same objectives, priorities, strategies or resources as we do. In July 2015, we completed transactions to combine our wholly owned coffee businesses with those of DEMB to create a new company, Jacobs Douwe Egberts, and
we acquired an 80% interest in a biscuit operation in Vietnam. In December 2015, we announced that we intend to exchange a portion of our equity ownership in JDE for equity in the new holding company of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc.
( Keurig ) in the event of a successful closing of the acquisition of Keurig by an investor group led by JAB Holding Co. Transactions or ventures into which we enter might not meet our financial and non-financial control and compliance
expectations or yield the anticipated benefits. Depending on the nature of the business ventures, including whether they operate globally, these ventures could also be subject to many of the same risks we are, including political, economic and
regulatory risks, currency exchange rate fluctuations, and volatility of commodity and other input prices. Either partner might fail to recognize alliance relationships that could expose the business to higher risk or make the venture not as
productive as expected. Furthermore, we may not be able to complete, on terms favorable to us, desired or proposed divestitures of businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or our growth or profitability targets. Our divestiture
activities, or related activities such as reorganizations, restructuring programs and transformation initiatives, may require us to recognize impairment charges or to take action to reduce costs that remain after we complete a divestiture. Gains or
losses on the sales of, or lost operating income from, those businesses may also affect our profitability.    Any of these risks and challenges could materially and
adversely affect our business, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.  
      15  

We must correctly predict, identify and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand and offer new products to
meet those changes.     Consumer preferences for food and snacking products change continually. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify and
interpret the tastes, dietary habits, packaging and other preferences of consumers around the world and to offer products that appeal to these preferences. Moreover, weak economic conditions, recession, equity market volatility or other factors
could affect consumer preferences and demand. If we do not offer products that appeal to consumers or if we misjudge consumer demand for our products, our sales and market share will decrease and our profitability could suffer.  
 We must distinguish among short-term fads, mid-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. If we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer
preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those changing preferences, our sales could decline. In addition, because of our varied consumer base, including by geography, we must offer an array of
products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. If we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing and more profitable categories, demand
for our products could decrease and our profitability could suffer.    Prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food products
could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. For example, consumers have increasingly focused on health and wellness, including weight management and reducing sodium and added sugar consumption.
In addition, consumer preferences differ by region, and we must monitor and adjust our use of ingredients to respond to these regional preferences. We might be unsuccessful in our efforts to effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and
social expectations. Continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition and results of operations.  
  Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect us.   
 The accuracy of our financial reporting depends on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting can
provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements and may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. These limitations include, among others, the possibility
of human error, inadequacy or circumvention of controls and fraud. If we do not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or design and implement controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation
and fair presentation of our financial statements, including in connection with controls executed for us by third parties, we might fail to timely detect any misappropriation of corporate assets or inappropriate allocation or use of funds and could
be unable to file accurate financial reports on a timely basis. As a result, our reputation, results of operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected.  
 In connection with management s assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2013, we determined that we did not maintain effective monitoring and oversight of controls over the completeness, accuracy and presentation of our accounting for income taxes, including the income tax provision and
related tax assets and liabilities. We determined that the ineffective monitoring and oversight of controls over income tax accounting constituted a material weakness. As of December 31, 2015, we remediated this material weakness. See
Item 9A,  Controls and Procedures , for a discussion of the material weakness and the remediation. If the new controls we implemented to strengthen our overall internal control over accounting for income taxes were not designed or do not
continue to operate effectively or if we are unsuccessful in continuing to follow these new processes, we may not timely or accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. This could adversely affect our stock price and the
confidence of investors, business partners and others in our financial reports.  
      16  

We are increasingly dependent on information technology and third party service providers.   
 We rely on information technology and third party service providers to process, transmit and store company information via business applications, internal networks and
the Internet. We use these technologies to support our global business processes and activities, including communicating with our employees, customers and suppliers; running critical business operations; meeting regulatory, legal and tax
requirements; and executing various digital marketing and consumer promotion activities.    These technologies and related information are subject to risks related to
confidentiality, integrity and continuity, many of which are beyond our control. Confidentiality and integrity of information may be jeopardized by deliberate or unintentional misuse, manipulation or disclosure of information; physical theft; or
cybersecurity data breaches. We might face increased risk if our goal of increasing our revenues through new initiatives, including e-commerce, leads to an increase in the amount of confidential information that we process and maintain. Continuity
of business applications and services may be disrupted by errors in systems  maintenance, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or software failures, viruses or malware, cyber security attacks, telecommunication
failures, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and other catastrophic events.    Should any of these risks materialize, the need to coordinate with various third
party service providers might complicate our efforts to resolve the related issues. If our controls, disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, our product sales, financial condition and
results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may experience delays in reporting our financial results.    In addition, should confidential
information belonging to us or our employees, customers, consumers, partners or suppliers be misused or breached, we may suffer financial losses relating to remediation, damage to our reputation or brands, loss of intellectual property or penalties
or litigation related to violation of data privacy laws and regulations.     Weak financial performance, downgrades in our credit ratings, illiquid global capital
markets and volatile global economic conditions could limit our access to the global capital markets, reduce our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs.     We
access the long-term and short-term global capital markets to obtain financing. Our financial performance, our short- and long-term debt credit ratings, interest rates, the stability of financial institutions with which we partner, the liquidity of
the overall global capital markets and the state of the global economy, including the food industry, could affect our access to, and the availability or cost of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions and our ability to pay dividends in the
future. There can be no assurance that we will have access to the global capital markets on terms we find acceptable.    We regularly access the commercial paper
markets in the United States and Europe for ongoing funding requirements. A downgrade in our credit ratings by a credit rating agency could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Disruptions in the
global commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the global credit markets also could reduce the amount of commercial paper that we could issue and raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt
offerings.    Limitations on our ability to access the global capital markets, a reduction in our liquidity or an increase in our borrowing costs could materially and
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  
      17  

Volatility in the equity markets, interest rates, our participation in multiemployer pension plans or other factors
could substantially increase our pension costs.     We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans for our employees throughout the world. At the end of
2015, the projected benefit obligation of our defined benefit pension plans was $11.1 billion and plan assets were $9.0 billion. The difference between plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net
periodic benefit costs of our pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of investments, including equities and
corporate debt. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, minimum funding requirements in the jurisdictions in which the plans operate, the viability of other employers in the
multiemployer pension plans in which we participate and the market value of plan assets can affect the level of plan funding, cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost and increase our future funding requirements. Legislative and other
governmental regulatory actions may also increase funding requirements for our pension plans  benefits obligation.    Volatility in the global capital markets
may increase the risk that we are required to make additional cash contributions to the pension plans and recognize further increases in our net periodic pension cost.  
 Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our
employees. Our contributions to a multi-employer plan may increase beyond our bargaining obligations depending on the financial condition of the multi-employer plan. We may be required to participate in funding the unfunded obligations of the plan
allocable to a withdrawing employer, and our costs might increase as a result. Further, if we partially or completely withdraw from a multi-employer pension plan, we may be required to pay a partial or complete withdrawal liability. This withdrawal
liability will generally increase if there is also a mass withdrawal of other participating employers or if the plan terminates. (See Note 10,  Benefit Plans , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our multiemployer
pension plans.)    A significant increase in our pension benefit obligations or funding requirements could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in the
business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.     Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and our failure to protect them
could reduce the value of our products and brands.     We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our
patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable part of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights by taking advantage of a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade
secret laws in various countries, as well as licensing agreements, third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third party misuses of our intellectual property. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual
property rights, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business.  
 We may be unaware of third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our technology, brands or products. Any litigation regarding patents or other
intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert management s and other key personnel s attention from our business operations. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to pay
monetary damages or enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales,
financial condition and results of operations.       Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments.   
 None.  
      18  

Item 2.   Properties.   
 On December 31, 2015, we had 156 manufacturing and processing facilities in 57 countries and 187 distribution centers and depots worldwide. During 2015, we opened
3 new manufacturing facilities and disposed of or ceased operations in 17 manufacturing facilities, primarily related to the coffee business transactions. We also opened 8 new distribution facilities and no longer own or lease 13 distribution
facilities. In addition, a decrease of 24 distribution facilities in our Asia Pacific segment primarily reflects distribution facilities that are owned or leased by third party logistics partners. It is our practice to maintain all of our plants and
other facilities in good condition. We believe we have or will add sufficient capacity to meet our planned operating needs.       
 
     Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.   
 Information regarding legal proceedings is available in Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements in this report.  
    Item 4.   Mine Safety Disclosures.   
 Not applicable.  
      19  

PART II   
    Item 5.   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.
    Our Common Stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  MDLZ.  At January 31, 2016, there were 59,102 holders of record
of our Common Stock. Information regarding the market price of our Common Stock and dividends declared during the last two fiscal years is included in Note 18,  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) , to the consolidated financial statements.
    Comparison of  Five-Year  Cumulative Total Return   
 The following graph compares the cumulative total return on our Common Stock with the cumulative total return of the S P 500 Index and the Mondel z
International performance peer group index. The graph assumes, in each case, that an initial investment of $100 is made at the beginning of the five-year period. The cumulative total return reflects market prices at the end of each year and the
reinvestment of dividends each year (and takes into account the value of Kraft Foods Group shares distributed in the Spin-Off). The vertical line below indicates the October 1, 2012 Spin-Off date and is intended to facilitate comparisons of
performance against peers listed below and the stock market before and following the Spin-Off.        

The Mondel z International performance peer group consists of the following companies considered our market competitors or
that have been selected on the basis of industry, global focus or industry leadership: Campbell Soup Company, The  Coca-Cola  Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Danone S.A., General Mills, Inc., The Hershey
Company, Kellogg Company, Nestl  S.A., PepsiCo, Inc., The Procter   Gamble Company and Unilever PLC.    This performance graph and other information
furnished under this Part II Item 5(a) of this Form  10-K  shall not be deemed to be  soliciting material  or to be  filed  with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to the
liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.  
      20  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
 Our stock repurchase activity for each of the three months in the quarter ended December 31, 2015 was:  

(1) 
 The total number of shares purchased includes: (i) shares purchased pursuant to the repurchase program described in (2) below; and (ii) shares tendered to us by employees who used shares to exercise
options and to pay the related taxes for grants of restricted and deferred stock that vested, totaling 12,074 shares, 1,597 shares and 174,350 shares for the fiscal months of October, November and December 2015, respectively.    

(2) 
 Our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $13.7 billion of our Common Stock through December 31, 2018. Specifically, on March 12, 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to the
lesser of 40 million shares or $1.2 billion of our Common Stock through March 12, 2016. On August 6, 2013, our Audit Committee, with authorization delegated from our Board of Directors, increased the repurchase program capacity to
$6.0 billion of Common Stock repurchases and extended the expiration date to December 31, 2016. On December 3, 2013, our Board of Directors approved an increase of $1.7 billion to the program related to a new accelerated share repurchase
program, which concluded in May 2014. On July 29, 2015, our Finance Committee, with authorization delegated from our Board of Directors, approved a $6.0 billion increase that raised the repurchase program capacity to $13.7 billion and extended
the program through December 31, 2018. See Note 12,  Capital Stock , for additional information.    
      21  

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data   
  Mondel z International, Inc.      Selected Financial Data   Five
Year Review  (1)        

(1) 
 The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our consolidated financial statements and related
notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Annual Reports on Form 10-K for earlier periods. A significant portion of our business is exposed to currency exchange rate fluctuation as a large portion of our assets, liabilities,
revenue and expenses must be translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Refer to  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for a discussion of operating results on a constant currency
basis where noted.    

(3) 
 Our Cash Flow and Financial Position information includes Kraft Foods Group data for periods prior to the October 1, 2012 Spin-Off date. Refer to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2012 for information on the divested net assets and items impacting cash flow. Other items impacting comparability primarily relate to the coffee business transactions in 2014 and 2015, the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela in 2015 and the
receipt of net cash proceeds from the resolution of the Starbucks arbitration in 2013. As of December 31, 2015, we had debt issuance costs related to recognized debt liabilities of $46 million, which have been reclassified from long-term other
assets to a deduction from the related debt obligations on the consolidated balance sheet. We have also made this reclassification in the prior years presented to be consistent with the current year presentation.    

(5) 
 Per Share and Other Data includes Kraft Foods Group data for periods prior to the October 1, 2012 Spin-Off date. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , related to the resolution of the Starbucks
arbitration in 2013 and the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, for additional information on the Cadbury acquisition in 2010.    

(6) 
 Refer to the  Equity and Dividends  section within  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  for additional information on our dividends following the
October 1, 2012 Spin-Off.    

(7) 
 Closing prices reflect historical market prices and have not been adjusted for periods prior to October 1, 2012 to reflect the Spin-Off of Kraft Foods Group on that date.    
      22  

Item 7.   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.     The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements. It should be read in conjunction with the other sections of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8,  Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risk Factors  contained in Item 1A.  
  Description of the Company     We manufacture and market primarily snack food
products, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum   candy and various cheese   grocery products, as well as powdered beverage products. We have operations in more than 80 countries and sell our
products in 165 countries.    Over the last several years, we have built a presence in the snacking category. We have expanded geographically and continue to invest
in product quality, marketing and innovation behind our iconic brands while also implementing a series of cost saving initiatives. Our goals are to achieve industry-leading revenue growth over time driven by the higher expected growth rates of
advantaged snack categories; leverage our cost structure through supply chain reinvention, productivity programs, overhead streamlining, volume growth and improved product mix to drive margin gains; and grow earnings per share in the top-tier of our
peer group.     Coffee Business Transactions     On July 2, 2015, we
completed transactions to combine our wholly owned coffee businesses (including our coffee portfolio in France) with those of D.E Master Blenders 1753 B.V. ( DEMB ) to create a new company, Jacobs Douwe Egberts or JDE. We currently hold a
43.5% equity interest in JDE and Acorn Holdings B.V. ( AHBV ), owner of DEMB, holds the remaining 56.5% equity interest.    In connection with the
contribution of our global coffee businesses to JDE, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $6.8 billion (or $6.6 billion after taxes) in 2015. We also recorded approximately $1.0 billion of pre-tax net gains related to hedging the expected cash proceeds
from the transactions as described further below.    The consideration we have received to date consists of    3.8
billion of cash ($4.2 billion U.S. dollars as of July 2, 2015), a 43.5% equity interest in JDE and $794 million in receivables (related to sales price adjustments and tax formation cost payments). During the third quarter of 2015, we also
recorded $283 million of cash and receivables from JDE related to reimbursement of costs that we incurred in separating our coffee businesses. The cash and equity consideration we received at closing reflects that we retained our interest in a
Korea-based joint venture, Dongsuh Foods Corporation. During the second quarter of 2015, we also completed the sale of our interest in a Japanese coffee joint venture, Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. ( AGF ). In lieu of contributing our
interest in the AGF joint venture to JDE, we contributed the net cash proceeds from the sale, and the transaction did not change the consideration received for our global coffee businesses. Please see Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions  
Other Divestitures, Acquisitions and Sales of Property , for discussion of the divestiture of AGF.    During the fourth quarter, we and JDE concluded negotiations
of a sales price adjustment and completed the valuation of our investment in JDE. Primarily related to the negotiated resolution of the sales price adjustment in the fourth quarter, we recorded a $313 million reduction in the pre-tax gain on the
coffee transaction, reducing the $7.1 billion estimated gain in the third quarter to the $6.8 billion final gain for 2015. As part of our sales price negotiations, we retained the right to collect future cash payments if certain estimated pension
liabilities come in over an agreed amount in the future. As such, we may recognize additional income related to this negotiated term in the future.    The final value
of our investment in JDE on July 2, 2015 was    4.1 billion, or $4.5 billion. The fair value of the JDE investment was determined using both income-based and market-based valuation techniques.
The discounted cash flow analysis reflected growth, discount and tax rates and other assumptions reflecting the underlying combined businesses and countries in which the combined coffee businesses operate.  
 In connection with the expected receipt of cash in euros at the time of closing, we entered into a number of consecutive currency exchange forward contracts in 2014 and
2015 to lock in an equivalent expected value in U.S. dollars as of the date the coffee business transactions were first announced in May 2014. Cumulatively, we realized aggregate net gains  
      23  

and received cash of approximately $1.0 billion on these hedging contracts that increased the cash we received in connection with the coffee business transactions from $4.2 billion in cash
consideration received to $5.2 billion. In connection with these currency contracts and the transfer of the sale proceeds to our subsidiaries that deconsolidated net assets and shares, we recognized a net gain of $628 million in 2014 and a net gain
of $436 million in 2015 within interest and other expense, net. For additional information on the JDE coffee transactions, see Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions .  
 On December 18, 2015, AHBV and we agreed to provide JDE additional capital to pay down some of its debt with lenders. Our pro rata share of the capital increase
was    499 million ($544 million U.S. dollars as of December 18, 2015) and was made in return for additional shares in JDE such that we retained our 43.5% interest in JDE following the
capital increase. To fund our share of the capital increase, we contributed    460 million ($501 million) of JDE receivables and made a
   39 million ($43 million) cash payment.   On December 6, 2015, we agreed to make an investment in
Keurig Green Mountain Inc. ( Keurig ), which is contingent upon the successful completion of a planned acquisition of Keurig by JAB Holding Co. ( JAB  and parent company of AHBV). Following the close of JAB s planned
acquisition of Keurig in early 2016, we intend to exchange a portion of our equity interest in JDE for an equity interest in Keurig. Following the exchange of shares, we expect our ownership in JDE to decrease to approximately 26.5% and our interest
in Keurig to be somewhat lower. We expect to account for both investments under the equity method, resulting in our recognizing our share of their earnings within our earnings and our share of their dividends within our cash flows. Our governance
rights in JDE will not change significantly and we will have similar governance rights in Keurig following the transaction. Our investment in Keurig will follow the acquisition of Keurig by JAB, which is expected to be completed by the end of the
first quarter of 2016 or early in the second quarter. As our exchange of shares in JDE for the investment in Keurig is conditioned upon the actions of JAB and Keurig s existing shareholders and is subject to further regulatory antitrust
reviews, we have not reflected the portion of our investment in JDE that would be exchanged for the Keurig investment as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2015.  
  Venezuela Deconsolidation     Effective as of the close of the 2015 fiscal
year, we concluded that we no longer met the accounting criteria for consolidation of our Venezuela subsidiaries due to a loss of control over our Venezuelan operations and an other-than-temporary lack of currency exchangeability. As of the close of
the 2015 fiscal year, we deconsolidated and changed to the cost method of accounting for our Venezuelan operations. We recorded a $778 million pre-tax loss as we reduced the value of our cost method investment in Venezuela and all Venezuelan
receivables held by our other subsidiaries to realizable fair value, resulting in full impairment. The recorded loss also included historical cumulative translation adjustments related to our Venezuelan operations that had previously been recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive losses within equity.    Beginning in 2016, we will no longer include net revenues, earnings or net assets from our Venezuelan
subsidiaries within our consolidated financial statements. Under the cost method of accounting, we will recognize earnings only to the extent cash is received from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Given the current and ongoing difficult economic,
regulatory and business environment in Venezuela, there continues to be significant uncertainty related to our operations in Venezuela and we expect these conditions will continue for the foreseeable future. We will monitor the extent of our ability
to control our Venezuelan operations and the liquidity and availability of U.S. dollars at different rates as our current situation in Venezuela may change over time and lead to consolidation at a future date. See below  Discussion and Analysis of
Historical Results   Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results , and Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting: Venezuela , for more information on
our historical Venezuela operating results, including the remeasurement losses and loss on deconsolidation.  
      24  

Summary of Results   

Net revenues decreased 13.5% to $29.6 billion in 2015 and decreased 3.0% to $34.2 billion in 2014. Net revenues in 2015 were significantly affected by unfavorable currency translation as the U.S. dollar strengthened
against most currencies in which we operate compared to exchange rates in the prior year and the July 2, 2015 deconsolidation of our global coffee business.    

Organic Net Revenue increased 3.7% to $31.6 billion in 2015 and increased 2.5% to $32.1 billion in 2014. Organic Net Revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure we use to evaluate our underlying results (see the definition
of Organic Net Revenue and our reconciliation with net revenues within  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later in this section).        

Diluted EPS attributable to Mondel z International increased 246.9% to $4.44 in 2015 and decreased 41.6% to $1.28 in 2014. Excluding the results of discontinued operations in 2013, our diluted EPS attributable to
Mondel z International from continuing operations decreased 0.8% to $1.28 in 2014. A number of significant items also affected the comparability of our reported results, as further described in the  Discussion and Analysis of Historical
Results  appearing later in this section and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.        
 
    Financial Outlook     We seek to achieve top-tier
financial performance. We manage our business to achieve this goal using three key operating metrics: Organic Net Revenue, Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted EPS. (Refer to  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later in this section for
more information on these measures.) Additional metrics that we use or monitor include product quality measures, category growth, market share performance, margins, pricing net of commodity costs, net commodity inflation, volume growth, Power Brand
Organic Net Revenue growth, gross and net productivity savings, brand support and related investments, capital spending, cash conversion cycle, free cash flow, return on invested capital and shareholder returns. We also monitor a number of factors
and trends that we expect may impact our revenues and profitability objectives:     Long-Term Demographics and Consumer Trends    Snack food consumption is
highly correlated to GDP growth, urbanization of the population and rising discretionary income levels associated with a growing middle class, particularly in emerging markets. Over the long-term, we expect these trends to continue leading to growth
in key consumer behaviors, including increased snacking occasions, greater use of convenience food and migration to more frequent, smaller meals. In the near term, low GDP growth, high unemployment and weak consumer confidence in Europe and emerging
markets have slowed category and our growth.     Demand    We monitor consumer spending and our market share within the food and beverage categories in
which we sell our products. Growth in the global categories increased from approximately 3.6% in 2014 to 5.5% in 2015, and our Organic Net Revenue growth also increased from 2.5% in 2014 to 3.7% in 2015. Our Organic Net Revenue included a 90 basis
point headwind from strategic decisions to improve revenue mix. In 2015, we began to improve our revenue mix by discontinuing certain low margin, customer-specific product lines, discontinuing certain low-margin licensed products and continuing to
simplify our portfolio. We anticipate taking similar actions to optimize our portfolio in 2016. The improvement in global category growth was largely driven by price relating to higher commodity costs and currency-related inflationary impacts. Over
the long-term, we expect category growth to return to levels more in line with historical growth rates when the macroeconomic environment in emerging markets recovers to a better balance between price and volume/mix. We continue to make investments
in our brands and build strong routes to market to address the needs of consumers in emerging and developed markets. In doing so, we anticipate stimulating demand in our categories and growing our position in these markets.  
  Volatility of Global Markets    Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations, particularly in emerging markets. Some of these
markets have greater political and economic volatility and vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions, as we experienced this past year in markets including Argentina, Brazil, Russia, Ukraine and
 
      25  

Venezuela. Volatility in these markets affects demand for and the costs of our products and requires frequent changes in how we operate our business. There will likely be continued volatility
across these and other markets in which we sell. As such, we are focused on continuing to manage our costs and adjusting prices as needed to recover changing costs while we continue to invest in our global Power Brands and routes to market.  
  Competition    We operate in highly competitive markets that include global, regional and local competitors. Our advantaged geographic footprint, operating
scale and portfolio of brands have all significantly contributed to building our market-leading positions across most of the product categories in which we sell. To grow and maintain our market positions, we focus on product quality, bringing new
products and innovations to market and effectively meeting consumer needs and preferences. We pursue growth opportunities such as expanding our global operations and growing our portfolio of Power Brands and innovative products. We continue to
optimize our manufacturing and other operations and invest in our brands through ongoing research and development, advertising, marketing and consumer promotions.  
  Pricing    We adjust our product prices based on a number of variables including demand, the competitive environment and changes in our product input costs.
Our net revenue growth and profitability may be affected as we adjust prices to address new conditions. In 2015, we generally increased prices in response to higher commodity costs, currency and other market factors. In 2016, we anticipate that we
will adjust our prices in response to changing market conditions. Price competition or delayed price increases by competitors or customers may continue to affect net revenues or market share in the near term as the market adjusts to the changes in
input costs and other market conditions.     Operating Costs    Our operating costs include raw materials, labor, selling, general and administrative
expenses, taxes, currency impacts and financing costs. We manage these costs through cost saving and productivity initiatives, sourcing and hedging programs, pricing actions, refinancing and tax planning. We also continue to work on programs to
expand our profitability and margins, such as our 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, which is designed to bring about significant reductions in our operating cost structure in both our supply chain and overhead costs.  
  Currency    As a global company with nearly 80% of our net revenues generated outside the United States, we are exposed to changes in global economic
conditions and currency movements. In the last three years, the U.S. dollar strengthened relative to other currencies in which we operate, and several countries experienced significant declines in or devaluations of their currency. These currency
movements had a significant negative effect on our reported results of operations. Our 2015 net revenues were $29.6 billion, down 13.5% from 2014, including a negative 12.6 percentage point impact from currency translation. Our 2014 net revenues
were $34.2 billion, down 3.0% from 2013, including a negative 5.2 percentage point impact from currency translation. In 2013, net revenues were $35.3 billion, up 0.8%, including a negative 2.4 percentage point impact from currency translation. While
we have net investment hedges in the form of local currency denominated debt to offset the translation of certain of our overseas operations, we generally do not hedge against currency translation. We primarily seek to hedge against economic losses
on cross-currency transactions. Due to limited markets for hedging currency transactions and other factors, we may not be able to effectively hedge all of our cross-currency transaction risks. We have historically also been exposed to currency
devaluation risks impacting earnings particularly in connection with our Venezuela operations, which as of December 31, 2015 has been deconsolidated. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     Currency Translation
and Highly Inflationary Accounting: Venezuela,  for more information .  The economy, monetary policies and other business restrictions in Venezuela, as well as in other developing countries, have created a challenging business environment in
which to operate, and our ability to hedge against currency-related economic losses may be limited. While we work to mitigate our exposure to these currency risks, factors such as continued global market volatility, actions by foreign governments,
political uncertainty and other external developments could lead to further unfavorable currency impacts in the future.     Financing Costs    We regularly
evaluate our variable and fixed-rate debt. We continue to use lower cost short- and long-term debt to finance our ongoing working capital, capital expenditures and other investments, dividends and share repurchases. In 2015, 2014 and 2013, we repaid
$15.6 billion of our long-term debt and issued lower-cost long-term euro, British pound sterling, Swiss franc and U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt as of December 31, 2015 was 3.7%, down from
4.3% as of December 31, 2014 and down from 4.8% as of December 31, 2013. Refer to Note 8,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , for additional debt activity in 2016.  
      26  

Discussion and Analysis of Historical Results   
  Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results     The following table
includes significant income or (expense) items that affected the comparability of our pre-tax results of operations and our effective tax rates. Please refer to the notes to the consolidated financial statements indicated below for more information.
Refer also to the  Consolidated Results of Operations   Net Earnings and Earnings per Share Attributable to Mondel z International  table for the per share impacts of these items.  

(1) 
 To lock in an expected U.S. dollar value of approximately $5 billion related to the estimated    4 billion cash receipt upon closing, we entered into currency exchange
forward contracts beginning in May 2014, when the transaction was announced. We recognized net gains of $405 million on these contracts during 2015 and net gains of $628 million in 2014. We also monetized additional hedges during July 2015 and
realized net pre-tax gains of $17 million. In connection with transferring the funds to our subsidiaries that deconsolidated net assets and shares, we incurred additional currency gains of $14 million in 2015.    

(2) 
 Includes the 2015 divestiture of AGF and the 2013 divestures of a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionary business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain and does not include the deconsolidation of
our coffee businesses, which is presented separately in the table above.    
      27  

Consolidated Results of Operations   
 The following discussion compares our consolidated results of operations for 2015 with 2014 and 2014 with 2013.  
   2015 compared with 2014        

Net Revenues    Net revenues decreased $4,608 million (13.5%) to $29,636 million in 2015, and Organic Net
Revenue  (1)  increased $1,131 million (3.7%) to $31,599 million. Organic Net Revenue growth from Power Brands was 5.4% and from emerging markets was 10.6%. The underlying changes in net
revenues and Organic Net Revenue are detailed below:       

2015  

Change in net revenues (by percentage point)   

Higher net pricing  

6.8pp 

Unfavorable volume/mix  

(3.1)pp 

Total change in Organic Net Revenue (1)    

3.7%  

Unfavorable currency  

(12.6)pp 

Historical coffee business   (2)     

(5.4)pp 

Impact of acquisitions  

0.5pp 

Impact of accounting calendar change  

0.3pp 

Total change in net revenues   

(13.5)%  

(1) 
 Please see the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  section at the end of this item.    

(2) 
 Includes our historical global coffee business prior to the July 2, 2015 coffee business transactions. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later
in this section for more information.      Organic Net Revenue growth was driven by higher net pricing, partially offset by unfavorable volume/mix. Net
pricing was up as we realized the effects of input cost-driven pricing actions taken during the year. Higher net pricing was reflected across all segments. Unfavorable volume/mix was largely due to price elasticity as well as strategic decisions to
exit certain low-margin product lines. Unfavorable volume/mix was reflected in all segments except North America. Unfavorable currency impacts decreased net revenues by $3,833 million, due primarily to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to
several currencies, including the euro, Brazilian real, Russian ruble, Venezuelan bolivar, Australian dollar and British pound sterling. The adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net
revenues of $2,149 million for the year. The July 15, 2015 acquisition of a biscuit operation in Vietnam added $128 million in incremental net revenues (constant currency basis) for the year. The North America segment accounting calendar change
resulted in a year-over-year increase in net revenues of $78 million for the year. The February 16, 2015 acquisition of the Enjoy Life Foods snack food business in North America added $37 million in incremental net revenues for the year.  
      28  

Operating Income    Operating income increased $5,655 million (174.4%) to $8,897 million in 2015, Adjusted
Operating Income  (1)  increased $172 million (4.7%) to $3,830 million and Adjusted Operating Income on a constant currency
basis  (1)  increased $694 million (19.0%) to $4,352 million due to the following:       

29  

(1) 
 Refer to the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  section at the end of this item.    

(2) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  for more information on Spin-Off Costs incurred in 2014 following the 2012 Kraft Foods Group divestiture.    

(4) 
 Refer to Note 7,  Integration Program and Cost Savings Initiatives , for more information on our integration costs in 2015 and 2014.    

(5) 
 Refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , for more information on the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela in 2015, remeasurements of net monetary assets in Venezuela in 2015 and 2014 and the
accounting calendar change in 2015.    

(6) 
 Refer to Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , for more information on the impairment charges recorded in 2015 and 2014 related to trademarks.    

(7) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information on the coffee business transactions.    

(8) 
 Includes our historical global coffee business prior to the July 2, 2015 divestiture. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later in this section
for more information.    

(9) 
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with
the accounting for JDE earnings, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income. In periods prior to July 2, 2015, we have reclassified the equity
method earnings from Adjusted Operating Income to evaluate our operating results on a consistent basis.    

(10) 
 Includes the divestiture of AGF that closed on April 23, 2015 and does not include the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. The divestiture of AGF generated a pre-tax gain of $13 million and after-tax loss of
$9 million in the second quarter. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later in this section for more information.    

(11) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information on the acquisitions of a biscuit operation in Vietnam and Enjoy Life Foods.    
 During 2015, higher net pricing outpaced increased input costs. Higher net pricing, due to input-cost driven pricing actions taken during the year, was reflected across
all segments. The increase in input costs was driven by higher raw material costs, in part due to higher currency exchange transaction costs on imported materials, partially offset by lower manufacturing costs. Unfavorable volume/mix was reflected
across all segments.    Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $880 million from 2014, due to a number of factors noted in the table above,
including in part, a favorable currency impact, the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business, lower devaluation charges related to our net monetary assets in Venezuela and the absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs.
The decreases were partially offset by increases from higher costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, costs associated with the coffee business transactions, lower value-added tax ( VAT )-related settlements, the
reclassification of equity method investment earnings, the impact of acquisitions and a gain on a sale of property in 2014.    Excluding the factors noted above,
selling, general and administrative expenses increased $327 million from 2014. The increase was driven primarily by higher advertising and consumer promotions support, particularly behind our Power Brands.  
 Excluding the portion related to deconsolidating our historical coffee business, the change in unrealized gains / (losses) increased operating income by $129 million in
2015. In 2015, the net unrealized gains on currency and commodity hedging activity were $56 million ($96 million including coffee related activity), as compared to net unrealized losses of $73 million ($112 million including coffee related activity)
in 2014 related to currency and commodity hedging activity. We recorded a benefit of $30 million in 2015 from VAT-related settlements in Latin America as compared to $84 million in 2014.  
 Unfavorable currency impacts decreased operating income by $522 million, due primarily to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to most currencies, including the
euro, Brazilian real, Venezuelan bolivar, British pound sterling, Australian dollar and Russian ruble.    Operating income margin increased from 9.5% in 2014 to 30.0%
in 2015. The increase in operating income margin was driven primarily by the pre-tax gain on the coffee business transactions, an increase in our Adjusted Operating Income margin, the absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs and lower
devaluation charges related to our net monetary assets in Venezuela. The items that increased operating income margin were partially offset by the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela, higher costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program
and costs associated with the coffee business transactions. Adjusted Operating Income margin increased from 12.0% in 2014 to 13.7% in 2015. The increase in Adjusted Operating Income margin was driven primarily by improved gross margin, reflecting
productivity efforts and the year-over-year favorable impact of unrealized gains / (losses) on currency and commodity hedging activities, and improved overhead leverage from cost reduction programs, partially offset by increased advertising and
consumer promotions support.  
      30  

Net Earnings and Earnings per Share Attributable to Mondel z International    Net earnings attributable to
Mondel z International of $7,267 million increased by $5,083 million (232.7%) in 2015. Diluted EPS attributable to Mondel z International was $4.44 in 2015, up $3.16 (246.9%) from 2014. Adjusted EPS  (1)  was $1.75 in 2015, flat to 2014. Adjusted EPS on a constant currency basis  (1)  was $2.08 in 2015, up $0.33 (18.9%) from 2014.

31  

(1) 
 Refer to the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  section at the end of this item.    

(2) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  for more information on Spin-Off Costs incurred in 2014 following the 2012 Kraft Foods Group divestiture.    

(4) 
 Refer to Note 7,  Integration Program and Cost Savings Initiatives , for more information on our integration costs in 2015 and 2014.    

(5) 
 Refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , for more information on the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela in 2015, remeasurements of net monetary assets in Venezuela in 2015 and 2014 and the
accounting calendar change in 2015.    

(6) 
 Refer to Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , for more information on the impairment charges recorded in 2015 and 2014 related to trademarks.    

(7) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information on the coffee business transactions. Net gains of $436 million in 2015 and $628 million in 2014 on the currency hedges related to the coffee
business transactions were recorded in interest and other expense, net and are included in the income / (costs) associated with the coffee business transactions of $0.01 in 2015 and $(0.19) in 2014 above.    

(8) 
 Includes the divestiture of AGF that closed on April 23, 2015 and does not include deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. The divestiture of AGF generated a pre-tax gain of $13 million and after-tax loss of $9
million in the second quarter. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and Non-GAAP Financial Measures appearing later in this section for more information.    

(9) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information on the acquisitions of a biscuit operation in Vietnam and Enjoy Life Foods.    

(10) 
 Refer to Note 8,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , for more information on our loss on debt extinguishment and related expenses in connection with our debt tender offers in March 2015 and February 2014.

(11) 
 Includes our historical coffee business results and equity earnings from JDE and our other equity method investees. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing
later in this section for more information.    

(12) 
 Excludes the favorable currency impact on interest expense related to our non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt which is included in currency translation.    

(13) 
 Refer to Note 11,  Stock Plans , for more information on our equity compensation programs and share repurchase program and Note 16,  Earnings Per Share , for earnings per share weighted-average share
information.    

(14) 
 Refer to Note 15,  Income Taxes , for more information on the change in our income taxes and effective tax rate.    

(15) 
 Refer to Note 9,  Financial Instruments , for more information on our interest rate swaps, which we no longer designate as cash flow hedges during the three months ended March 31, 2015 due to a change in
financing and hedging plans.    

(16) 
 Includes our proportionate share of unusual or infrequent items, such as acquisition and divestiture-related costs and restructuring program costs, recorded by our JDE equity method investee.    
      32  

2014 compared with 2013    

Net Revenues    Net revenues decreased $1,055 million (3.0%) to $34,244 million in 2014, and Organic Net Revenue  (1)  increased $785 million (2.5%) to $32,080 million. Organic Net Revenue growth from Power Brands was 4.4% and from emerging markets was 7.3%. The underlying changes in net revenues and
Organic Net Revenue are detailed below:       

2014  

Change in net revenues (by percentage point)   

Higher net pricing  

5.1pp 

Unfavorable volume/mix  

(2.6)pp 

Total change in Organic Net Revenue  (1)    

2.5%  

Unfavorable currency  

(5.2)pp 

Historical coffee business  (2)   

Impact of divestitures  (3)   

(0.3)pp 

Impact of accounting calendar change  

(0.1)pp 

Impact of acquisition  

0.1pp 

Total change in net revenues   

(3.0)%  

(1) 
 Please see the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  section at the end of this item.    

(2) 
 Includes our historical global coffee business prior to the July 2, 2015 coffee business transactions. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later
in this section for more information.    

(3) 
 Includes the 2013 divestures of a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionary business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain and does not include the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. Refer to
Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later in this section for more information.      Organic
Net Revenue growth was driven by higher net pricing, partially offset by unfavorable volume/mix. Overall, net pricing was up as we realized the effects of input cost-driven pricing actions implemented over the course of the year. Higher net pricing
was reflected primarily in Latin America, EEMEA, Europe and Asia Pacific. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven primarily by Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America. In addition to price elasticity, the decline was largely due to a slow response by
competitors to higher input costs as well as the impact of price-related customer disruptions in Europe. Unfavorable currency impacts decreased net revenues by $1,626 million, due primarily to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar and the
strength of the U.S. dollar relative to several currencies, including the Argentinean peso, Brazilian real, Russian ruble, Australian dollar and Ukrainian hryvnya, partially offset by the strength of the British pound sterling relative to the U.S.
dollar. Our historical coffee business recorded a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $128 million for the year. The impact of divestitures completed in 2013, including a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionery business in South
Africa and a chocolate business in Spain, resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $70 million. The accounting calendar change made in Europe in 2013 resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $30 million. The
acquisition of a biscuit operation in Morocco on February 22, 2013 added $14 million in incremental net revenues in 2014 for the period prior to the anniversary date of the acquisition.  
      33  

Operating Income    Operating income decreased $729 million (18.4%) to $3,242 million in 2014, Adjusted
Operating Income  (1)  increased $198 million (5.7%) to $3,658 million and Adjusted Operating Income on a constant currency basis 
(1)  increased $446 million (12.9%) to $3,906 million due to the following:       

(1) 
 Refer to the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  section at the end of this item.    

34  

(4) 
 Refer to Note 7,  Integration Program and Cost Savings Initiatives , for more information on our integration costs in 2014 and 2013.    

(5) 
 See Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , for information on the resolution of the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification.    

(6) 
 Refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , for more information on the remeasurements of net monetary assets in Venezuela in 2014 and 2013.    

(7) 
 Includes our historical global coffee business prior to the July 2, 2015 coffee business transactions. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later
in this section for more information.    

(8) 
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with
the accounting for JDE earnings, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income. In periods prior to July 2, 2015, we have reclassified the equity
method earnings from Adjusted Operating Income to evaluate our operating results on a consistent basis.    

(9) 
 Includes the 2013 divestures of a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionary business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain and the 2013 acquisition of a biscuit operation in Morocco and does not
include the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  appearing later in this section for more information.    

(10) 
 Refer to Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , for information on the impairment charges in 2014 recorded related to two trademarks.    

(11) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information on the coffee business transactions.      During
2014, higher net pricing outpaced increased input costs. Higher net pricing was reflected across all segments. The increase in input costs was driven by higher raw material costs, in part due to higher currency exchange transaction costs on imported
materials, partially offset by lower manufacturing costs. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by Latin America, Asia Pacific, Europe and EEMEA, partially offset by gains in North America.  
 Total selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $222 million from 2013, due to a number of factors noted in the table above, including in part, a favorable
currency impact, lower Integration Program costs, VAT-related settlements in 2014, lower costs associated with our historical coffee business, lower Spin-Off Costs, 2013 business divestitures and a gain on a sale of property in 2014. These decreases
were more than offset by increases from a 2013 benefit received related to the resolution of a Cadbury acquisition indemnification, increased devaluation charges related to our net monetary assets in Venezuela, costs incurred for the 2014-2018
Restructuring Program, costs related to the coffee business transactions, gains on property sales in 2013 and higher 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs.  
 Excluding the factors noted above, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $306 million from 2013, driven primarily by lower overhead costs and lower
advertising and consumer promotion costs. Overhead costs fell as a result of continued cost reduction efforts. Advertising and consumer promotion costs were lower due primarily to savings from consolidating media providers, reductions in non-working
media costs and efficiencies gained by shifting spending to lower-cost, digital media outlets, while we increased our spending on our Power Brands and maintained working media spending.  
 Excluding the portion related to deconsolidating our historical coffee business, the change in unrealized gains / (losses) decreased operating income by $116 million in
2014. In 2014, the net unrealized losses on primarily commodity hedging activity were $73 million ($112 million including coffee-related activity), as compared to net unrealized gains of $43 million in 2013 ($62 million including coffee-related
activity) related to currency and commodity hedging activity. In 2013, we recorded pre-tax gains of $68 million related to sales of properties in India and Europe. In 2014, we recorded a benefit of $84 million related to VAT-related settlements in
Latin America. In 2014, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $7 million related to the sale of a property in Europe. The acquisition of a biscuit operation in Morocco on February 22, 2013 added $3 million in incremental operating income in 2014 for
the period prior to the anniversary of the acquisition.    Unfavorable currency impacts decreased operating income by $248 million, due primarily to the devaluation
of the Venezuelan bolivar in 2013 and 2014 and the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to several currencies, including the Argentinean peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, Russian ruble and Canadian dollar, partially offset by the strength of
the British pound sterling relative to the U.S. dollar.    Operating income margin decreased from 11.2% in 2013 to 9.5% in 2014. The decrease in operating income
margin was driven primarily by costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, the year-over-year negative impact of the benefit from the resolution of the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification recorded in 2013, higher costs for the
2012-2014 Restructuring Program, the impact from the devaluation of our net monetary assets in Venezuela and costs incurred associated with the coffee business transactions, partially offset by an increase in our Adjusted Operating Income margin and
lower Integration Program costs. Adjusted Operating Income margin increased from 11.0% in 2013 to 12.0% in 2014. The increase in Adjusted Operating Income margin was driven primarily by lower overhead costs from continued cost reduction efforts and
lower advertising and consumer promotion costs due primarily to productivity initiatives, partially offset by a decline in gross profit margin due entirely to the unfavorable impact of unrealized gains / (losses) on currency and commodity hedging
activities.  
      35  

Net Earnings and Earnings per Share Attributable to Mondel z International    Net earnings attributable to
Mondel z International of $2,184 million in 2014 decreased by $1,731 million (44.2%) due primarily to the results of the discontinued operations in the prior year. Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Mondel z
International was $1.28 in 2014, down $0.01 (0.8%) from $1.29 in 2013. Adjusted EPS  (1)  was $1.75 in 2014, up $0.21 (13.6%) from $1.54 in 2013. Adjusted EPS on a constant currency basis  (1)  was $1.89 in 2014, up $0.35 (22.7%) from $1.54 in 2013.       

36  

(1) 
 Refer to the  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  section at the end of this item.    

(2) 
 Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information on Spin-Off Costs following the 2012 Kraft Foods Group divestiture, the resolution of the Starbucks arbitration, the  Coffee Business
Transactions , other divestitures, an acquisition and other property sales. Note the $628 million unrealized gain on the currency hedges related to the JDE coffee transactions was recorded in interest and other expense, net and is included in the
income /(costs) associated with the JDE coffee transactions of $0.19 above.    

(4) 
 Refer to Note 7,  Integration Program and Cost Savings Initiatives , for information on our Cadbury acquisition integration program and other acquisition integration charges.    

(5) 
 Refer to Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , for more information on the benefit related to the resolution of a Cadbury acquisition indemnification in 2013.    

(6) 
 Refer to Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting , for more information on the remeasurements of net monetary assets in Venezuela in 2014 and
2013.    

(7) 
 Refer to Note 8,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , for more information on our loss on debt extinguishment and related expenses in connection with our debt tender offers in February 2014 and December 2013.

(8) 
 Excludes the favorable currency impact on interest expense related to our non-U.S. dollar denominated debt which is included in currency translation.    

(9) 
 Refer to Note 11,  Stock Plans , and Note 12,  Capital Stock , for more information on our equity compensation programs and share repurchase program and Note 16,  Earnings Per Share , for earnings per
share weighted-average share information.    

(10) 
 Refer to Note 15,  Income Taxes , for more information on the change in our income taxes and effective tax rate.    

(11) 
 Refer to Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , for more information on the impairment charges in 2014 recorded related to two trademarks.    
  Results of Operations by Reportable Segment     Our operations and management
structure are organized into five reportable operating segments:      

Latin America    

Asia Pacific    

EEMEA    

Europe    

North America      We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing
business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise in our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions.  
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with the accounting for our deconsolidated coffee business and related investment in JDE, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment
earnings outside of segment operating income. For the six months ended December 31, 2015, after-tax equity method investment net earnings were less than $1 million on a combined basis. Earnings from equity method investments through July 2,
2015 recorded within segment operating income were $49 million in Asia Pacific, $3 million in EEMEA and $4 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2014 these earnings were $98 million in Asia Pacific, $6 million in EEMEA and
$9 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2013 these earnings were $99 million in Asia Pacific, $7 million in EEMEA and $1 million in North America. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Principles
of Consolidation , for additional information.    In 2015, we also began to report stock-based compensation for our corporate employees, which was previously
reported within our North America region, within general corporate expenses. We reclassified $32 million of corporate stock-based compensation expense out of the North America segment in 2015.  
 We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze
segment performance and trends. See Note 17,  Segment Reporting,  for additional information on our segments and  Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results  earlier in this section for items affecting our segment operating
results.  
      37  

Our segment net revenues and earnings for the following historical periods were:  

(1) 
 On July 2, 2015, as part of the JDE coffee transactions, we deconsolidated our global coffee businesses primarily from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segments. The impact of deconsolidating our coffee
businesses on July 2, 2015 was $1,699 million in Europe, $413 million in EEMEA, $32 million in Asia Pacific and $5 million in Latin America on a year-over-year basis. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business
Transactions , for more information.         

38  

Latin America         
 
    2015 compared with 2014:      Net
revenues decreased $165 million (3.2%), due to unfavorable currency (23.0 pp), unfavorable volume/mix (8.2 pp) and the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business (0.1 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (28.1 pp).
Unfavorable currency impacts were due primarily to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to most currencies in the region, including the Brazilian real, Venezuelan bolivar, Mexican peso and Argentinean peso. Unfavorable volume/mix was largely due
to the impact of pricing-related elasticity as well as strategic decisions to exit certain low-margin product lines. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in refreshment beverages, cheese   grocery, chocolate and biscuits, partially
offset by gains in gum   candy. The adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $5 million. Higher net pricing was reflected across all categories. Both the
unfavorable volume/mix and higher net pricing were driven primarily by the higher inflationary countries of Venezuela and Argentina, as well as Brazil.    Segment
operating income increased $10 million (2.1%), primarily due to higher net pricing, higher remeasurement losses in 2014 related to our net monetary assets in Venezuela, lower manufacturing costs and the absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program
costs. These favorable items were partially offset by higher raw material costs, unfavorable currency, unfavorable volume/mix, higher other selling, general and administrative expenses (including lower year-over-year VAT-related settlements), higher
advertising and consumer promotion costs and higher costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program and an intangible asset impairment charge in 2015 related to a biscuit trademark.  
   2014 compared with 2013:      Net revenues decreased $229 million (4.3%),
due to unfavorable currency (19.4 pp) and unfavorable volume/mix (4.2 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (19.3 pp). Unfavorable currency impacts were due primarily to the Venezuelan bolivar devaluation and the strength of the U.S. dollar
relative to the Argentinean peso and Brazilian real. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in all categories except biscuits. In addition, unfavorable volume/mix was driven primarily by Mexico, Venezuela and Argentina, partially offset by
gains in Brazil and the Western Andean countries. Higher net pricing was reflected primarily in the higher inflationary countries of Venezuela and Argentina, as well as in Brazil and Mexico.  
 Segment operating income decreased $95 million (16.7%), primarily due to higher raw material costs, unfavorable currency, unfavorable volume/mix, the year-over-year net
impact from the remeasurement of net monetary assets in Venezuela, costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program and higher advertising and consumer promotion costs. These unfavorable items were partially offset by higher net pricing, lower
manufacturing costs, the absence of Integration Program costs in 2014, lower other selling, general and administrative expenses (including $84 million related primarily to VAT-related settlements) and lower 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs.
 
      39  

Asia Pacific         
 
    2015 compared with 2014:      Net
revenues decreased $245 million (5.3%), due to unfavorable currency (9.2 pp), unfavorable volume/mix (2.2 pp) and the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business (0.6 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (3.9 pp) and
the impact of an acquisition (2.8 pp). Unfavorable currency impacts were due primarily to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to most currencies in the region, including the Australian dollar, Indian rupee and Japanese yen. Unfavorable
volume/mix was due largely to the impact of pricing-related elasticity as well as strategic decisions to exit certain low-margin product lines. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in all categories except gum and biscuits. The adjustment
for deconsolidating our historical coffee business resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $32 million. Higher net pricing was reflected across all categories except refreshment beverages. The acquisition of a biscuit operation in
Vietnam in July 2015 added net revenues of $128 million (constant currency basis).    Segment operating income decreased $117 million (30.4%), primarily due to higher
costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, higher raw material costs, higher advertising and consumer promotion costs, unfavorable currency, the reclassification of equity method investment earnings, unfavorable volume/mix, higher other
selling, general and administrative expenses (including a phase-out of a local tax incentive program), the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business and other divestiture, other acquisition-related integration costs and costs
associated with the coffee business transactions. These unfavorable items were partially offset by higher net pricing, lower manufacturing costs, the absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, the impact of the Vietnam acquisition and lower
intangible asset impairment charges (related to candy and biscuit trademarks in 2015 and a biscuit trademark in 2014).      2014 compared with 2013:    
 Net revenues decreased $347 million (7.0%), due to unfavorable volume/mix (5.7 pp), unfavorable currency (4.3 pp) and a decrease in our historical coffee
business (0.4 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (3.4 pp). Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in all categories except gum. Unfavorable currency impacts were due primarily to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the
Australian dollar, Indian rupee, Indonesian rupiah and Japanese yen. A decline in our historical coffee business resulted in a $28 million decrease in net revenues. Higher net pricing was reflected across all categories except gum and candy.  
 Segment operating income decreased $127 million (24.8%), primarily due to higher raw material costs, unfavorable volume/mix, an intangible asset impairment charge
related to a biscuit trademark, higher 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, the impact of our historical coffee business and unfavorable currency. These unfavorable items were partially
offset by higher net pricing, lower manufacturing costs, lower advertising and consumer promotion costs, the absence of Integration Program costs in 2014 and lower other selling, general and administrative expenses (including an unfavorable
year-over-year impact from the 2013 gain on a sale of property in India).  
      40  

EEMEA         
 
    2015 compared with 2014:      Net
revenues decreased $852 million (23.4%), due to unfavorable currency (20.7 pp), the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business (8.7 pp) and unfavorable volume/mix (5.4 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (11.4 pp).
Unfavorable currency impacts were due to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to most currencies in the region, primarily the Russian ruble, Ukrainian hryvnya and South African rand. The adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee
business resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $413 million. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in all categories except biscuits. Higher net pricing was reflected across all categories.  
 Segment operating income decreased $133 million (40.7%), primarily due to higher raw material costs, the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business,
higher costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, unfavorable currency, higher advertising and consumer promotion costs, unfavorable volume/mix, higher other selling, general and administrative expenses and costs associated with the
coffee business transactions. These unfavorable items were partially offset by higher net pricing, lower manufacturing costs and the absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs.  
   2014 compared with 2013:      Net revenues decreased $277 million (7.1%),
due to unfavorable currency (11.2 pp), unfavorable mix (0.7 pp), a decrease in our historical coffee business (0.6 pp) and the impact of divestitures (0.6 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (5.6 pp) and the impact of the February 2013
acquisition of a biscuit operation in Morocco (0.4 pp). Unfavorable currency impacts were due to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to most currencies in the region, primarily the Russian ruble, Ukrainian hryvnya, South African rand and
Turkish lira. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in chocolate and refreshment beverages, partially offset by gains in biscuits, gum   candy and cheese   grocery. A decline in our historical coffee business resulted in a
$71 million decrease in net revenues. Divestitures completed in 2013 resulted in a $20 million decline in net revenues. Higher net pricing was reflected across all categories except refreshment beverages. The acquisition of a biscuit operation in
Morocco in February 2013 added $14 million in incremental net revenues for 2014 for the period prior to the anniversary date of the acquisition.    Segment operating
income decreased $52 million (13.7%), primarily due to higher raw material costs, higher 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, unfavorable currency, costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, the impact of our historical coffee
business, unfavorable volume/mix and costs associated with the JDE coffee transactions. These unfavorable items were partially offset by higher net pricing, lower manufacturing costs, lower Integration Program and other acquisition integration
costs, lower advertising and consumer promotion costs and the impact of 2013 divestitures.  
      41  

Europe         
 
    2015 compared with 2014:      Net
revenues decreased $3,384 million (24.3%), due to unfavorable currency (13.6 pp), the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business (8.8 pp) and unfavorable volume/mix (2.7 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (0.8 pp).
Unfavorable currency impacts primarily reflected the strength of the U.S. dollar against most currencies in the region, including the euro and British pound sterling. The adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business resulted in a
year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $1,699 million. Unfavorable volume/mix was largely due to the impact of pricing-related elasticity as well as strategic decisions to exit certain low-margin product lines. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven
by declines in chocolate, gum, refreshment beverages and cheese   grocery, partially offset by gains in biscuits and candy. Higher net pricing was driven by chocolate, partially offset by lower net pricing in biscuits, cheese  
grocery, gum   candy and refreshment beverages.    Segment operating income decreased $493 million (27.9%), primarily due to unfavorable currency, the
adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee business, higher costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, costs associated with the coffee business transactions, unfavorable volume/mix, higher raw material costs, higher
advertising and consumer promotion costs and higher intangible asset impairment charges related to a candy trademark. These unfavorable items were partially offset by the lower manufacturing costs, absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs,
higher net pricing and lower other selling, general and administrative expenses (net of the unfavorable year-over-year impact from the 2014 gain on a sale of property in the United Kingdom).  
   2014 compared with 2013:      Net revenues decreased $147 million (1.0%),
due to unfavorable volume/mix (2.8 pp), the impact of the prior year s accounting calendar change (0.3 pp) and the impact of divestitures (0.1 pp), partially offset by higher net pricing (1.7 pp), favorable currency (0.4 pp) and the impact of
our historical coffee business (0.1 pp). Unfavorable volume/mix was due to pricing-related elasticity across the region and certain pricing-related customer disruptions. Unfavorable volume/mix was driven by declines in all categories. The accounting
calendar change made in 2013 resulted in a year-over-year decrease in net revenues of $30 million. In addition, divestitures completed in 2013 resulted in an $11 million decline in net revenues. Higher net pricing was driven by chocolate and
cheese   grocery, partially offset by lower net pricing in all other categories. Favorable currency impacts primarily reflected the strength of the British pound sterling relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the strength of the
U.S. dollar against the Swedish krona, the euro and Norwegian krone. In addition, a decline in our historical coffee business, though at a lower rate than the rest of our European segment, resulted in a $29 million decrease in net revenues.  
 Segment operating income increased $71 million (4.2%), primarily due to lower manufacturing costs, higher net pricing, lower other selling, general and administrative
expenses (net of the unfavorable year-over-year impact from the 2013 gains on the sales of property in the United Kingdom, Norway and Italy, and the benefit from a 2014 gain on a sale of property in the United Kingdom) lower advertising and consumer
promotion costs, lower Integration Program costs (including the reversal of a prior-year accrual) and the impact of our historical coffee business. These favorable items were partially offset by higher raw material costs (primarily higher cocoa
costs), costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, unfavorable volume mix, higher 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, costs associated with the coffee business transactions, an intangible asset impairment charge related to a candy
trademark and the year-over-year impact from the accounting calendar change made in 2013.  
      42  

North America         
 
    2015 compared with 2014:      Net
revenues increased $38 million (0.5%), due to an accounting calendar change (1.2 pp), an acquisition (0.5 pp), favorable volume/mix (0.5 pp) and higher net pricing (0.3 pp), partially offset by unfavorable currency (2.0 pp). The change in North
America s accounting calendar added net revenues of $78 million. The acquisition of the Enjoy Life Foods snack food business in February 2015 added net revenues of $37 million. Favorable volume/mix was driven by gains in biscuits and candy,
partially offset by declines in gum and chocolate. Higher net pricing was reflected in gum and chocolate, partially offset by lower net pricing in biscuits and candy. Unfavorable currency impact was due to the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to
the Canadian dollar.    Segment operating income increased $183 million (19.8%), primarily due to the absence of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, lower
manufacturing costs, lower other selling, general and administrative expenses (including the reclassification of corporate stock-based compensation), the impact of an accounting calendar change, higher net pricing and lower raw material costs. These
favorable items were partially offset by higher costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, unfavorable currency, higher advertising and consumer promotion costs, unfavorable volume/mix and the reclassification of equity method
investment earnings.      2014 compared with 2013:      Net revenues
decreased $55 million (0.8%), due to unfavorable currency (1.0 pp) and the impact of divestitures (0.6 pp), partially offset by favorable volume/mix (0.7 pp) and higher net pricing (0.1 pp). Unfavorable currency impact was due to the strength of the
U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar. Divestitures completed in 2013 resulted in a $39 million decline in net revenues. Favorable volume/mix was driven primarily by gains in all categories except gum. Higher net pricing was reflected
primarily in biscuits and gum, partially offset by lower net pricing in chocolate and candy.    Segment operating income increased $33 million (3.7%), primarily due
to lower raw material costs, lower other selling, general and administrative expenses (including higher equity method investment earnings), favorable volume/mix, lower 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, lower advertising and consumer promotion
costs and higher net pricing. These favorable items were partially offset by costs incurred for the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, higher manufacturing costs and the impact of divestitures.  
      43  

Critical Accounting Estimates   
 We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the use of estimates, judgments
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Actual results could differ from those estimates and
assumptions. Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements includes a summary of the significant accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. We have
discussed the selection and disclosure of our critical accounting policies and estimates with our Audit Committee. The following is a review of our most significant assumptions and estimates.  
  Goodwill and Non-Amortizable Intangible Assets:     We test goodwill and
non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on October 1. We assess goodwill impairment risk throughout the year by performing a qualitative review of entity-specific, industry, market and general economic factors
affecting our goodwill reporting units. We review our operating segment and reporting unit structure for goodwill testing annually or as significant changes in the organization occur. Annually, we may perform qualitative testing, or depending on
factors such as prior-year test results, current year developments, current risk evaluations and other practical considerations, we may elect to do quantitative testing instead. Quantitative impairment testing consists of a two-step evaluation. The
first step compares a reporting unit s estimated fair value with its carrying value. We estimate a reporting unit s fair value using a discounted cash flow method which incorporates planned growth rates, market-based discount rates and
estimates of residual value. This year, for our Europe and North America reporting units, we used a market-based, weighted-average cost of capital of 6.8% to discount the projected cash flows of those operations. For our Latin America, Asia Pacific
and EEMEA reporting units, we used a risk-rated discount rate of 9.8%. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans and industry and economic conditions, and our
actual results and conditions may differ over time. If the carrying value of a reporting unit s net assets exceeds its fair value, we would apply a second step to measure the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of
goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill is impaired and its carrying value is reduced to the implied fair value of the goodwill.  
 On July 2, 2015, we deconsolidated our global coffee businesses from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segments. Goodwill was deconsolidated from the impacted
reporting units based on relative fair values of the coffee and remaining businesses. Intangible assets contributed with the coffee business transactions were specifically identified. We deconsolidated total goodwill of $1,664 million and intangible
assets of less than $1 million during the third quarter of 2015. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information.  
 In 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were no impairments of goodwill. In connection with our 2015 annual impairment testing, each of our reporting units had sufficient fair
value in excess of carrying value. In connection with the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations on December 31, 2015, we tested our Latin America reporting unit and determined the remaining businesses excluding Venezuela had sufficient
fair value in excess of carrying value, such that there were no impairments of goodwill. While all reporting units passed our annual impairment testing, if expectations are not met or specific valuation factors outside of our control, such as
discount rates, change significantly, then the estimated fair values of a reporting unit or reporting units might decline and lead to a goodwill impairment in the future.  
 Annually, we assess non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment by performing a qualitative review and assessing events and circumstances that could affect the
fair value or carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. If significant potential impairment risk exists for a specific asset, we quantitatively test it for impairment by comparing its estimated fair value with its carrying value.
Estimated fair value is determined using planned growth rates, market-based discount rates and estimates of royalty rates. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, the asset is impaired and its carrying value is reduced
to the estimated fair value.    During our 2015 annual testing of non-amortizable intangible assets, we recorded $71 million of impairment charges related to four
trademarks. The impairments arose due to lower than expected product growth partly driven by decisions made in the fourth quarter to redirect support for the products to other regional and global brands and slowdowns in local economies. We
recorded charges related to candy and biscuit trademarks of $44 million in Asia Pacific, $22 million in Europe and $5 million in Latin America. The impairment charges were calculated as the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value
of the intangible assets on a global basis and were recorded within asset impairment and exit costs. We primarily use a relief of royalty valuation method, which utilizes estimates of future sales, growth rates, royalty
 
      44  

rates and discount rates in determining a brand s global fair value. During our 2015 intangible asset impairment review, we noted seven brands, including the four impaired trademarks,
with $598 million of aggregate book value as of December 31, 2015 that each had a fair value in excess of book value of 10% or less. While these intangible assets passed our annual impairment testing and we believe our current plans for each of
these brands will allow them to continue to not be impaired, if expectations are not met or specific valuation factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change significantly, then a brand or brands could become impaired in the future.
In 2014, we recorded a $48 million charge related to a biscuit trademark in our Asia Pacific segment and a $9 million charge related to a candy trademark in our Europe segment. Additionally, in connection with the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan
operations on December 31, 2015, we recorded $12 million of impairment charges within the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela related to a biscuit trademark.  
 Refer also to Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , for additional information.  
  Trade and marketing programs:     We promote our products with advertising,
marketing, sales incentives and trade promotions. These programs include, but are not limited to, cooperative advertising, in-store displays, consumer promotions, new product introduction fees, discounts, coupons, rebates and volume-based
incentives. We expense advertising costs either in the period the advertising first takes place or as incurred. Sales incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction to revenues based on amounts estimated due to customers and
consumers at the end of a period. We base these estimates principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. For interim reporting purposes, advertising expenses and sales incentives are charged to operations as a percentage of volume,
based on estimated volume and estimated program spending. We do not defer costs on our year-end consolidated balance sheet and all marketing costs are recorded as an expense in the year incurred.  
  Employee Benefit Plans:     We sponsor various employee benefit plans throughout
the world. These include primarily pension plans and postretirement healthcare benefits. For accounting purposes, we estimate the pension and post-retirement healthcare benefit obligations utilizing assumptions and estimates for discount rates;
expected returns on plan assets; expected compensation increases; employee-related factors such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; and health care cost trends. We review our actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and make modifications to
the assumptions based on current rates and trends when appropriate. Our assumptions also reflect our historical experiences and management s best judgment regarding future expectations. These and other assumptions affect the annual expense and
obligations recognized for the underlying plans.    In 2016, we expect pension and postretirement medical costs to decrease by approximately $135 million to $185
million due to a combination of factors, including a decreased number of plan participants, changes in discount rates, company contributions to the plans and a change in our approach to measuring service and interest costs. For 2015, we measured
service and interest costs utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the plan obligations. For 2016, we elected to measure service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that
yield curve to the plans  liability cash flows. We believe the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plans  liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the
yield curve. This change does not affect the measurement of our plan obligations nor the funded status of our plans.    As permitted by U.S. GAAP, we generally
amortize the effect of changes in the assumptions over future periods. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost), is deferred and included in expense on a
straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits.    Since pension and post-retirement liabilities are
measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate significantly affects our plan obligations and expenses. The expected return on plan assets assumption affects our pension plan expenses, since many of our pension plans are partially funded. The
assumptions for discount rates and expected rates of return and our process for setting these assumptions are described in Note 10,  Benefit Plans , to the consolidated financial statements.  
      45  

While we do not anticipate further changes in the 2016 assumptions for our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement
health care plans, as a sensitivity measure, a  fifty-basis  point change in our discount rates or the expected rate of return on plan assets would have the following effects, increase / (decrease), on our
annual benefit plan costs:       

As of December 31, 2015  

U.S. Plans  

Non-U.S. Plans  

Fifty-Basis-Point  

Fifty-Basis-Point  

Increase  

Decrease  

Increase  

Decrease  

(in millions)  

Effect of change in discount rate on pension costs  
    
 $ 
 (16 
 )  
    
 $ 
 18 

$ 
 (47 
 )  
    
 $ 
 58 

Effect of change in expected rate of return on plan assets on pension costs  

(6 
 )  

6 

(37 
 )  

37 

Effect of change in discount rate on postretirement health care costs  

(5 
 )  

5 

(1 
 )  

1 

Income Taxes:     As a global company, we
calculate and provide for income taxes in each tax jurisdiction in which we operate. The provision for income taxes includes the amounts payable or refundable for the current year, the effect of deferred taxes and impacts from uncertain tax
positions. Our provision for income taxes is significantly affected by shifts in the geographic mix of our pre-tax earnings across tax jurisdictions, changes in tax laws and regulations, tax planning opportunities available in each tax jurisdiction
and the ultimate outcome of various tax audits.    Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary
differences between the financial statement and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates that will apply to taxable income
in the years in which those differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized.  
 We recognize tax benefits in our financial statements from uncertain tax positions only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
examination by tax authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The amount we recognize is measured as the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement. We evaluate uncertain tax
positions on an ongoing basis and adjust the related tax liabilities or assets in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit or expiration of a statute of limitations. We believe the estimates and assumptions used
to support our evaluation of uncertain tax positions are reasonable. However, final determination of historical tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different from
estimates reflected on our consolidated balance sheet and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our provision for income taxes, net earnings or cash flows in the period in which
the determination is made. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax laws and that we have properly accounted for uncertain tax positions.    No taxes
have been provided on undistributed foreign earnings that are planned to be indefinitely reinvested. If future events, such as material changes in long-term investment requirements, necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional
provision for taxes may apply, which could materially affect our future effective tax rate.    See Note 15,  Income Taxes , for additional information on our
effective tax rate, current and deferred taxes, valuation allowances and unrecognized tax benefits.     Contingencies:   
 See Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements.  
  New Accounting Guidance:     See Note 1,  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies , to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of new accounting standards.  
      46  

Commodity Trends   
 We regularly monitor worldwide supply, commodity cost and currency trends so we can cost-effectively secure ingredients, packaging and fuel required for production.
Prior to the July 2, 2015 coffee business transactions, increased costs for coffee beans were the highest driver of increased commodity costs for the first half of 2015. During 2015, the primary drivers of the increase in our aggregate
commodity costs, excluding coffee, were increased costs for packaging, nuts, cocoa, energy, grains and oils and higher currency-related costs on our commodity purchases, partially offset by lower costs for dairy and sugar.  
 A number of external factors such as weather conditions, commodity market conditions, currency fluctuations and the effects of governmental agricultural or other
programs affect the cost and availability of raw materials and agricultural materials used in our products. We address higher commodity costs and currency impacts primarily through hedging, higher pricing and manufacturing and overhead cost control.
We use hedging techniques to limit the impact of fluctuations in the cost of our principal raw materials; however, we may not be able to fully hedge against commodity cost changes, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in
specific raw material costs. Due to competitive or market conditions, planned trade or promotional incentives, fluctuations in currency exchange rates or other factors, our pricing actions may also lag commodity cost changes temporarily.  
 We expect price volatility and a slightly higher aggregate cost environment to continue in 2016. While the costs of our principal raw materials fluctuate, we believe
there will continue to be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they will generally remain available from numerous sources.      
 Liquidity and Capital Resources     We believe that cash from operations, our $4.5 billion revolving credit facility and our authorized long-term financing
will provide sufficient liquidity for our working capital needs, planned capital expenditures, future contractual obligations, share repurchases and payment of our anticipated quarterly dividends. We continue to utilize our commercial paper program,
international credit lines and long-term debt issuances for regular funding requirements. We also use intercompany loans with our international subsidiaries to improve financial flexibility. Overall, we do not expect any negative effects to our
funding sources that would have a material effect on our liquidity, including the indefinite reinvestment of our earnings outside of the United States.     Net Cash
Provided by Operating Activities:     Operating activities provided net cash of $3,728 million in 2015, $3,562 million in 2014 and $6,410 million in 2013. Cash
flows from operating activities in all years were impacted by our working capital improvements, primarily due to continually decreasing our cash conversion cycle (a metric that measures working capital efficiency and utilizes days sales outstanding,
days inventory on hand and days payables outstanding) to negative 12 days in 2015, positive 10 days in 2014 and positive 20 days in 2013. Cash flows from operating activities were favorable in 2015 relative to 2014 primarily due to higher relative
working capital cash improvements than in 2014 and significant tax payments in 2014 related to the $2.6 billion Starbucks arbitration award we received in late 2013, partially offset by higher contributions related to our pensions benefit plans.
Cash flows from operating activities were unfavorable in 2014 relative to 2013 primarily related to our receipt of $2.6 billion of net cash from the resolution of the Starbucks arbitration in 2013 and higher related income taxes paid in 2014 and
lower relative working capital cash improvements than in 2013, partially offset by lower interest payments in 2014 following the debt refinancing in the first quarter of 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2013.  
  Net Cash Provided by / (Used in) Investing Activities:     Net cash provided by
investing activities was $2,649 million in 2015 and net cash used in investing activities was $1,642 million in 2014 and $1,483 million in 2013. The increase in net cash provided by investing activities in 2015 relative to 2014 primarily relates to
$4.7 billion of proceeds, net of divested cash and transaction costs, from the contribution of our global coffee businesses and the divestiture of AGF, the cash receipt of $1.0 billion due to the settlement of currency exchange forward contracts
related to our coffee business transactions and lower capital expenditures in 2015 of $128 million, partially offset by the $611 million reduction of cash due to the Venezuela deconsolidation, $501 million of contributed JDE receivables and a $43
million cash payment to fund a capital increase in JDE and $527 million of payments to acquire a biscuit operation in Vietnam and the Enjoy Life Foods snack food business in 2015. The increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2014
relative to 2013 relates to lower cash inflows to offset higher capital expenditures in 2014. In 2013, we received higher cash proceeds from property sales, net proceeds of $60 million from divestitures and $55 million in cash from Kraft Foods Group
in connection with the Spin-Off, partially offset by $119 million of payments to acquire a biscuit operation in Morocco in 2013.  
      47  

Capital expenditures were $1,514 million in 2015, $1,642 million in 2014 and $1,622 million in 2013. The 2015 capital
expenditures were made primarily to modernize manufacturing facilities and support new product and productivity initiatives. We expect 2016 capital expenditures to be up to $1.5 billion, including capital expenditures required for investments in
systems and the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program. We expect to continue to fund these expenditures from operations.     Net Cash Used in Financing Activities:
    Net cash used in financing activities was $5,883 million in 2015, $2,688 million in 2014 and $6,687 million in 2013. The increase in net cash used in financing
activities in 2015 relative to 2014 was primarily due to higher repayments of long-term debt in 2015 (including the tender offers and euro notes maturities), $1.9 billion of higher share repurchases and higher net short-term debt repayments,
partially offset by higher proceeds received from long-term note issuances. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities in 2014 relative to 2013 was primarily due to significantly lower long-term debt repayments and lower share repurchases
in 2014, offset in part by decreased proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and other short-term borrowings and higher dividend payments in 2014.     Debt:
    From time to time we refinance long-term and short-term debt. Refer to Note 8,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , for details of our tender offers and
debt issuances during 2015, 2014 and 2013. The nature and amount of our long-term and short-term debt and the proportionate amount of each varies as a result of current and expected business requirements, market conditions and other
factors. Generally, in the first and second quarters of the year, our working capital requirements grow, increasing the need for short-term financing. The third and fourth quarters of the year typically generate higher cash flows. As such,
we may issue commercial paper or secure other forms of financing throughout the year to meet short-term working capital needs.    In July 2015, our Board of Directors
approved a $5 billion long-term financing authority to replace the prior authority. As of December 31, 2015, we had $4 billion of long-term financing authority remaining.  
 During 2016, $1,750 million of long-term debt matured in February. We funded this repayment with net proceeds from debt issuances in January 2016, cash from operations
and the issuance of commercial paper. There are no other scheduled maturities of long-term debt within the 12 months following December 31, 2015.    Our total
debt was $15.4 billion at December 31, 2015 and $16.7 billion at December 31, 2014. Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 0.35 at December 31, 2015 and 0.38 at December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2015, the weighted-average
term of our outstanding long-term debt was 8.6 years. Our average daily commercial borrowings were $2.2 billion in 2015, $1.9 billion in 2014 and $1.0 billion in 2013. We expect to continue to comply with our long-term debt covenants. Refer to Note
8,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , for more information on our debt and debt covenants.       Equity and Dividends   
  Stock Plans:     See Note 11, Stock Plans, to the consolidated financial
statements for more information on our stock plans and grant activity during 2015, 2014 and 2013.     Share Repurchases:   
 See Note 12,  Capital Stock , to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our share repurchase and accelerated share repurchase programs.  
 We intend to continue to use a portion of our cash for share repurchases. On July 29, 2015, our Finance Committee, with authorization delegated from our Board of
Directors, approved an increase of $6.0 billion in the share repurchase program, raising the authorization to $13.7 billion of Common Stock repurchases, and extended the program through December 31, 2018. We repurchased $8.3 billion of shares
($3.6 billion in 2015, $1.9 billion in 2014 and $2.7 billion in 2013) through December 31, 2015. The number of shares that we ultimately repurchase under our share repurchase program may vary depending on numerous factors, including share price
and other market conditions, our ongoing capital allocation planning, levels of cash and debt balances, other demands for cash, such as acquisition activity, general economic or business conditions and board and management discretion. Additionally,
our share repurchase activity during any particular period may fluctuate. We may accelerate, suspend, delay or discontinue our share repurchase program at any time, without notice.  
      48  

Dividends:     We paid dividends of
$1,008 million in 2015, $964 million in 2014 and $943 million in 2013. Immediately following the Spin-Off of Kraft Foods Group on October 1, 2012, our annual dividend rate changed to $0.52 per common share. On August 6, 2013, our Audit
Committee, with authorization from our Board of Directors, approved an 8% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.14 per common share or $0.56 per common share on an annual basis. On August 5, 2014, our Audit Committee, with authorization from
our Board of Directors, approved a 7% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.15 per common share or $0.60 per common share on an annual basis. On July 23, 2015, our Board of Directors approved a 13% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.17
per common share or $0.68 per common share on an annual basis. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash requirements,
future prospects and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant to its analysis and decision making.       Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations     We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements other than the contractual obligations discussed
below.     Guarantees:     As discussed in Note 13, Commitments and
Contingencies, we enter into third-party guarantees primarily to cover the long-term obligations of our vendors. As part of these transactions, we guarantee that third parties will make contractual payments or achieve performance measures. At
December 31, 2015, we had no material third-party guarantees recorded on our consolidated balance sheet.    In addition, at December 31, 2015, we were
contingently liable for $842 million of guarantees related to our own performance. These include letters of credit, surety bonds and guarantees related to the payment of custom duties and taxes.  
 Guarantees do not have, and we do not expect them to have, a material effect on our liquidity.  
  Aggregate Contractual Obligations:     The following table summarizes our
contractual obligations at December 31, 2015.       

(1) 
 Amounts include the expected cash payments of our long-term debt excluding capital leases, which are presented separately in the table above. The amounts also exclude $(70) million of net unamortized non-cash bond
premiums and discounts and mark-to-market adjustments related to our interest rate swaps recorded in total debt.    

(2) 
 Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our interest expense on our long-term debt. Interest calculated on our euro, British pound sterling and Swiss franc notes was forecasted using currency exchange rates as
of December 31, 2015. An insignificant amount of interest expense was excluded from the table for a portion of our other non-U.S. debt obligations due to the complexities involved in forecasting expected interest payments.    

(3) 
 Operating lease payments represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.    
      49  

(4) 
 Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, co-manufacturing arrangements, storage and distribution) are commitments for projected needs to
be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, advertising, capital expenditures, information technology and professional services. Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a
contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction. Most arrangements are cancelable without a significant penalty and with short notice
(usually 30 days). Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are excluded from the table above.    

(5) 
 Other long-term liabilities include estimated future benefit payments for our postretirement health care plans through December 31, 2025 of $197 million. We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of the
payments beyond 2025; as such, they are excluded from the above table. There are also another $300 million of various other long-term liabilities that are expected to be paid over the next 5 years. In addition, the following long-term liabilities
included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the table above: accrued pension costs, income taxes, insurance accruals and other accruals. We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of the payments (or contributions beyond 2016, in
the case of accrued pension costs) for these items. We currently expect to make approximately $449 million in contributions to our pension plans in 2016. As of December 31, 2015, our total liability for income taxes, including uncertain tax
positions and associated accrued interest and penalties, was $1,046 million. We currently estimate payments of approximately $316 million related to these positions over the next 12 months.    
    Non-GAAP Financial Measures     We use non-GAAP
financial information and believe it is useful to investors as it provides additional information to facilitate comparisons of historical operating results, identify trends in our underlying operating results and provide additional transparency on
how we evaluate our business. We use certain non-GAAP financial measures to budget, make operating and strategic decisions and evaluate our performance. We disclose non-GAAP financial measures so that you have the same financial data that we use to
assist you in making comparisons to our historical operating results and analyzing our underlying performance.    Our primary non-GAAP financial measures reflect how
we evaluate our current and prior-year operating results. As new events or circumstances arise, these definitions could change over time.      

Organic Net Revenue  is defined as net revenues excluding the impacts of acquisitions, divestitures  (1) , our historical global coffee business  (2) , Integration Program costs, accounting calendar changes and currency rate fluctuations. We also evaluate Organic Net Revenue growth from emerging markets and our Power Brands.    

Our emerging markets include our Latin America and EEMEA regions in their entirety; the Asia Pacific region, excluding Australia, New Zealand and Japan; and the following countries from the Europe region: Poland, Czech
Republic, Slovak Republic, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, the Baltics and the East Adriatic countries.    

Our Power Brands include some of our largest global and regional brands such as  Oreo, Chips Ahoy!, Ritz, TUC/Club Social  and  belVita  biscuits;  Cadbury Dairy Milk, Milka  and  Lacta  chocolate;
 Trident  gum;  Hall s  candy; and  Tang  powdered beverages.        

Adjusted Operating Income  is defined as operating income excluding the impacts of Spin-Off Costs, pension costs related to the obligations transferred in the Spin-Off, the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program,
the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, the Integration Program and other acquisition integration costs, the remeasurement of net monetary assets in Venezuela, loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela, the benefit from the Cadbury acquisition-related
indemnification resolution, incremental costs associated with the coffee business transactions, impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets, gains or losses on divestitures 
(1)  or acquisitions, gain on the coffee business transactions  (2) , divestiture-related costs, acquisition-related costs, the operating results of divestitures  (1) , our historical global coffee business operating results  (2)  and equity method investment earnings historically reported within operating
income  (3) . We also evaluate growth in our Adjusted Operating Income on a constant currency basis.        

Adjusted EPS  is defined as diluted EPS attributable to Mondel z International from continuing operations excluding the impacts of Spin-Off
Costs, pension costs related to the obligations transferred in the Spin-Off, the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program, the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program, the Integration Program and other acquisition integration costs, the remeasurement of net monetary
assets in Venezuela, loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela, the net benefit from the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification resolution, losses on debt extinguishment and related expenses, the residual tax benefit impact from the resolution of
the Starbucks arbitration, hedging gains or losses and incremental costs associated with the coffee business transactions, impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets, gains or losses on interest rate swaps no longer designated as
accounting cash flow hedges due to changed financing and hedging plans, gains or losses on divestitures  (1)  or acquisitions, gain on the coffee business transactions  (2) , divestiture-related costs, acquisition-related costs and net earnings from divestitures (1) , and including an interest expense adjustment
related to the     
      50  

Spin-Off transaction. In addition, we have adjusted our equity method investment earnings for our proportionate share of their unusual or infrequent items, such as acquisition and
divestiture-related costs and restructuring program costs, recorded by our JDE equity method investee. We also evaluate growth in our Adjusted EPS on a constant currency basis.     

(1) 
 Divestitures include businesses under sale agreements for which we have cleared significant sale-related conditions such that the pending sale is probable as of the end of the reporting period and exits of major product
lines under a sale or licensing agreement. See (2) below.    

(2) 
 In connection with the global coffee business transactions that closed on July 2, 2015, because we exchanged our coffee interests for similarly-sized coffee interests in JDE (which, following the July 2, 2015
closing, is 43.5% of our historical and DEMB s combined global coffee businesses), we have deconsolidated and not included our historical global coffee business results within divestitures in our non-GAAP financial measures and in the related
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . We continue to have an ongoing interest in the coffee business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, we have included the after-tax earnings of JDE
and of our historical coffee business results within continuing results of operations. For Adjusted EPS, we have included these earnings in equity method investment earnings and have deconsolidated our historical coffee business results from Organic
Net Revenue and Adjusted Operating Income to facilitate comparisons of past and future coffee operating results.    

(3) 
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, we began to
record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income following the deconsolidation of our coffee business. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
Principles of Consolidation , for more information. In periods prior to July 2, 2015, we have reclassified the equity method earnings from our Adjusted Operating Income to after-tax equity method investment earnings within Adjusted EPS to be
consistent with the deconsolidation of our coffee business results on July 2 and in order to evaluate our operating results on a consistent basis.    
 We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with our U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to the
corresponding U.S. GAAP financial measures, provides you with a more complete understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained absent these disclosures. Because non-GAAP financial measures may vary among other
companies, the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Our use of these non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for any U.S. GAAP financial measure. A limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is they exclude items detailed below that have an impact on our U.S. GAAP reported results. The best way this limitation can be addressed is by
evaluating our non-GAAP financial measures in combination with our U.S. GAAP reported results and carefully evaluating the following tables that reconcile U.S. GAAP reported figures to the non-GAAP financial measures in this Form 10-K.  
      51  

Organic Net Revenue     Applying
the definition of  Organic Net Revenue , the adjustments made to  net revenues  (the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure) were to exclude the impact of currency, the adjustment for deconsolidating our historical coffee
business, divestitures, acquisitions and accounting calendar changes. We believe that Organic Net Revenue better reflects the underlying growth from the ongoing activities of our business and provides improved comparability of results. We also
evaluate our Organic Net Revenue growth from emerging markets and Power Brands, and these underlying measures are also reconciled to U.S. GAAP below.      

(1) 
 Includes our historical global coffee business prior to the July 2, 2015 coffee business transactions. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this
section for more information.    

(2) 
 Includes the 2013 divestures of a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionary business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain and does not include the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. Refer to
Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this section for more information.    
      52  

Adjusted Operating Income   
 Applying the definition of  Adjusted Operating Income , the adjustments made to  operating income  (the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure)
were to exclude Spin-Off Costs, 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, 2014-2018 Restructuring Program costs, the Integration Program and other acquisition integration costs, the benefit from the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification
resolution, loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela, the remeasurement of net monetary assets in Venezuela, impairment charges related to intangible assets, incremental costs associated with the coffee business transactions, operating income from our
historical coffee business, gain on the coffee business transactions, operating results of divestitures, gains on acquisitions and divestitures, acquisition-related costs and an adjustment for equity method investment earnings historically reported
within operating income that were reclassified to after-tax earnings. We also evaluate Adjusted Operating Income on a constant currency basis. We believe these measures provide improved comparability of operating results.  

53  

(1) 
 Includes our historical global coffee business prior to the July 2, 2015 coffee business transactions. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this
section for more information.    

(2) 
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with
the accounting for JDE earnings, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income. In periods prior to July 2, 2015, we have reclassified the equity
method earnings from Adjusted Operating Income to evaluate our operating results on a consistent basis.    

(3) 
 Includes the divestiture of AGF on April 23, 2015 and does not include the deconsolidation of our global coffee businesses or the gain on the coffee business transactions. The divestiture of AGF generated a pre-tax
gain of $13 million and an after-tax loss of $9 million in the second quarter. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this section for more information.    

(4) 
 Includes the 2013 divestures of a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionary business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain and does not include the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. Refer to
Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this section for more information.    
      54  

Adjusted EPS     Applying the
definition of  Adjusted EPS , the adjustments made to  diluted EPS attributable to Mondel z International  (the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure) were to exclude Spin-Off Costs, 2012-2014 Restructuring
Program costs, 2014-2018 Restructuring Program costs, the Integration Program and other acquisition integration costs, the net benefit from the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification resolution, the residual tax benefit impact from the
resolution of the Starbucks arbitration, losses on debt extinguishment and related expenses, loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela, the remeasurement of net monetary assets in Venezuela, impairment charges related to intangible assets, hedging gains
and incremental costs associated with the coffee business transactions, gain on the coffee business transactions, losses on interest rate swaps no longer designated as accounting cash flow hedges due to changed financing and hedging plans, net
earnings from divestitures, after-tax gain/loss on divestitures, our proportionate share of unusual or infrequent items recorded by our JDE equity method investee and acquisition-related costs. We also evaluate Adjusted EPS on a constant currency
basis. We believe Adjusted EPS provides improved comparability of operating results.       

(1) 
 Includes the divestiture of AGF on April 23, 2015 and does not include the deconsolidation of our global coffee businesses or the gain on the coffee business transactions. The divestiture of AGF generated a pre-tax
gain of $13 million and an after-tax loss of $9 million in the second quarter. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this section for more information.    
      55  

(1) 
 Includes the 2013 divestures of a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionary business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain and does not include the deconsolidation of our coffee businesses. Refer to
Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , and our non-GAAP definitions appearing earlier in this section for more information.    
      56  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.   
 As we operate globally, we are primarily exposed to currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate market risks. We monitor and manage these exposures as
part of our overall risk management program. Our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results.
We principally utilize derivative instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. For additional information on our derivative
activity and the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge our currency exchange, commodity price and interest rate exposures, see Note 9,  Financial Instruments .  
 Many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates create volatility in our reported
results as we translate the balance sheets, operating results and cash flows of these subsidiaries into the U.S. dollar for consolidated reporting purposes. The translation of non-U.S. dollar denominated balance sheets and statements of earnings of
our subsidiaries into the U.S. dollar for consolidated reporting generally results in a cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income within equity. A stronger U.S. dollar relative to other functional currencies adversely affects
our consolidated earnings and net assets while a weaker U.S. dollar benefits our consolidated earnings and net assets. While we hedge significant forecasted currency exchange transactions as well as certain net assets of non-U.S. operations and
other currency impacts, we cannot fully predict or eliminate volatility arising from changes in currency exchange rates on our consolidated financial results. See  Consolidated Results of Operations  and  Results of Operations by
Reportable Segment  under  Discussion and Analysis of Historical Results  for currency exchange effects on our financial results during 2015. For additional information on the impact of currency policies, the deconsolidation of our
Venezuelan operation and the historical remeasurement of our Venezuelan net monetary assets on our financial condition and results of operations, also see Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Currency Translation and Highly
Inflationary Accounting .   We also continually monitor the market for commodities that we use in our products. Input costs may fluctuate widely due to
international demand, weather conditions, government policy and regulation and unforeseen conditions. To manage the input cost volatility, we enter into forward purchase agreements and other derivative financial instruments. We also pursue
productivity and cost saving measures and take pricing actions when necessary to mitigate the impact of higher input costs on earnings.   We regularly evaluate our
variable and fixed-rate debt as well as current and expected interest rates in the markets in which we raise capital. Our primary exposures include movements in U.S. Treasury rates, corporate credit spreads, London Interbank Offered Rates
( LIBOR ), Euro Interbank Offered Rate ( EURIBOR ) and commercial paper rates. We periodically use interest rate swaps and forward interest rate contracts to achieve a desired proportion of variable versus fixed rate debt based
on current and projected market conditions. In addition to using interest rate derivatives to manage future interest payments, during 2015, we retired $4.2 billion of our long-term debt and issued $4.5 billion of lower borrowing cost debt. Our
weighted-average interest rate on our total debt as of December 31, 2015 was 3.7%, down from 4.3% as of December 31, 2014.     Value at Risk:   
 We use a value at risk ( VAR ) computation to estimate: 1) the potential one-day loss in the fair value of our interest rate-sensitive financial instruments;
and 2) the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of our currency and commodity  price-sensitive  derivative financial instruments. The VAR analysis was done separately for our currency exchange, fixed
income and commodity risk portfolios as of each quarter end during 2015. The instruments included in the VAR computation were currency exchange forwards and options for currency exchange risk, debt and swaps for interest rate risk, and commodity
forwards, futures and options for commodity risk. Excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended
to hedge.  
      57  

The VAR model assumes normal market conditions, a 95% confidence interval and a one-day holding period. A parametric
delta-gamma approximation technique was used to determine the expected return distribution in interest rates, currencies and commodity prices for the purpose of calculating the fixed income, currency exchange and commodity VAR, respectively. The
parameters used for estimating the expected return distributions were determined by observing interest rate, currency exchange, and commodity price movements over the prior quarter for the calculation of VAR amounts at December 31, 2015 and
2014, and over each of the four prior quarters for the calculation of average VAR amounts during each year. The values of currency and commodity options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency or commodity and were valued
accordingly in the VAR computation.    As of December 31, 2015, the estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of our interest rate-sensitive instruments,
primarily debt, and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from our currency and commodity instruments, as calculated in the VAR model, were:      
   This VAR computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum expected daily loss, under the specified
confidence interval and assuming normal market conditions, from adverse movements in interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The computation does not represent actual losses in fair value or earnings we will incur, nor does it
consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. We cannot predict actual future movements in market rates and do not present these VAR results to be indicative of future movements in market rates or to be representative of any actual
impact that future changes in market rates may have on our future financial results.  
      58  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Mondel z International, Inc.:  
 In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings, equity and cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Mondel z International, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2015 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s
management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the Report of
Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  
 As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it classifies deferred income taxes in 2015. 
 A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
 /s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP    Chicago, Illinois
   February 19, 2016  
      59  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statements of Earnings   
   For the Years Ended December 31   
  (in millions of U.S. dollars, except per share data)       
 
  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
      60  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings   
   For the Years Ended December 31   
  (in millions of U.S. dollars)       
 
  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
      61  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Balance Sheets, as of December 31   
   (in millions of U.S. dollars, except share data)       
 
  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
      62  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statements of Equity   
   (in millions of U.S. dollars, except per share data)       
 
  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
      63  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
   For the Years Ended December 31   
  (in millions of U.S. dollars)       
 
  See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.  
      64  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
   Note 1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   
   Description of Business:     Mondel z International,
Inc. (formerly Kraft Foods Inc.) was incorporated in 2000 in the Commonwealth of Virginia. Mondel z International, Inc., through its subsidiaries (collectively  Mondel z International,   we,   us  and
 our ), sells food and beverage products to consumers in 165 countries.     Principles of Consolidation:   
 The consolidated financial statements include Mondel z International, Inc. as well as our wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries. For all periods presented
through December 31, 2015, the operating results of our Venezuelan subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements. As of the close of the fourth quarter of 2015, we deconsolidated our Venezuelan operations from our
consolidated financial statements and recognized a loss on deconsolidation. See  Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting: Venezuela  below for more information.  
 We account for investments in which we exercise significant influence (20%-50% ownership interest) under the equity method of accounting. On July 2, 2015, we
contributed our global coffee businesses to a new company, Jacobs Douwe Egberts ( JDE ), in which we now hold a 43.5% equity interest (collectively, the  coffee business transactions ). Historically, our coffee businesses and the
income from primarily coffee-related and smaller equity method investments were recorded within our operating income as these businesses operated as direct extensions of our base business. Following the coffee business transactions, while we retain
an ongoing interest in coffee through significant equity method investments, and we have significant influence with JDE and other equity method investments, we do not have control over these operations directly. As such, beginning in the third
quarter of 2015, we began to recognize the investment earnings in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income and segment income. For the six months ended December 31, 2015, after-tax equity method investment net
earnings were less than $1 million on a combined basis and thus is not shown on our consolidated statement of earnings for this period. For periods prior to the July 2, 2015 closing, the coffee and other equity method investment earnings
were included within our operating income and segment income. Please see Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , and Note 17,  Segment Reporting , for more information on these transactions.
   We use the cost method of accounting for investments in which we have an ownership interest of less than 20% and in which we do not exercise significant influence.
The noncontrolling interest represents the noncontrolling investors  interests in the results of subsidiaries that we control and consolidate. All intercompany transactions are eliminated.  
  Discontinued Operation:     On October 1, 2012 (the  Distribution
Date ), we completed the spin-off of our former North American grocery business, Kraft Foods Group, Inc. ( Kraft Foods Group  which is now part of The Kraft Heinz Company), by distributing 100% of the outstanding shares of common
stock of Kraft Foods Group to holders of our Common Stock (the  Spin-Off ). We retained our global snacks business along with other food and beverage categories. The divested Kraft Foods Group business is presented as a discontinued
operation on the consolidated statements of earnings in 2013. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  for additional information.     Accounting Calendar
Change:     In connection with moving toward a common consolidation date across the Company, in the first quarter of 2015, we changed the consolidation date for our
North America segment from the last Saturday of each period to the last calendar day of each period. The change had a favorable impact of $78 million on net revenues and $37 million on operating income in 2015. In the first quarter of 2013, we
changed the consolidation date for our Europe segment, from predominantly the last Saturday of each period to the last calendar day of each period. The change had a favorable impact of $37 million on net revenues and $6 million on operating income
in 2013.    As a result of these changes, each of our operating subsidiaries now reports results as of the last calendar day of the period. We believe the change will
improve business planning and financial reporting by better matching the close dates of the operating subsidiaries and bringing the reporting dates to the period-end date. As the effect to prior-period results was not material, we have not revised
prior-period results.  
      65  

Use of Estimates:     We prepare
our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ), which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect a number of amounts in our
consolidated financial statements. Significant accounting policy elections, estimates and assumptions include, among others, pension and benefit plan assumptions, valuation assumptions of goodwill and intangible assets, useful lives of long-lived
assets, restructuring program liabilities, marketing program accruals, insurance and self-insurance reserves and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable. If actual amounts
differ from estimates, we include the revisions in our consolidated results of operations in the period the actual amounts become known. Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between our estimates and actual amounts in any year have not
had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.     Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting:   
 We translate the results of operations of our subsidiaries from multiple currencies using average exchange rates during each period and translate balance sheet accounts
using exchange rates at the end of each period. We record currency translation adjustments as a component of equity (except for highly inflationary currencies such as in Venezuela) and realized exchange gains and losses on transactions in earnings.
    Venezuela.  From January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2015, we accounted for the results of our Venezuelan subsidiaries using the U.S. dollar as
the functional currency as prescribed by U.S. GAAP for highly inflationary economies.    Effective as of the close of the 2015 fiscal year, we concluded that we no
longer met the accounting criteria for consolidation of our Venezuela subsidiaries due to a loss of control over our Venezuelan operations and an other-than-temporary lack of currency exchangeability. During the fourth quarter of 2015,
representatives of the Venezuelan government arbitrarily imposed pricing restrictions on our local operations that resulted in our inability to recover operating costs. We immediately began an appeal process with the Venezuelan authorities to
demonstrate that our pricing was in line with the regulatory requirements. In January 2016, local officials verbally lifted some of the pricing restrictions; however, it is uncertain when the legally required administrative order will be issued. The
legal and regulatory environment has become more unreliable. While we had been complying with the Venezuelan law governing pricing and profitability controls and had followed the legal process for appeal, the appeal process was not available to us
as outlined under law. Additionally, we have been increasingly facing issues procuring raw materials and packaging. Taken together, these actions, the economic environment in Venezuela and the progressively limited access to dollars to import goods
through the use of any of the available currency mechanisms have impaired our ability to operate and control our Venezuelan businesses. We therefore concluded that we no longer met the criteria for the consolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiaries.
   As of the close of the 2015 fiscal year, we deconsolidated and changed to the cost method of accounting for our Venezuelan operations. We recorded a $778 million
pre-tax loss as we reduced the value of our cost method investment in Venezuela and all Venezuelan receivables held by our other subsidiaries to realizable fair value, resulting in full impairment. The recorded loss also included historical
cumulative translation adjustments related to our Venezuelan operations that had previously been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses within equity. The fair value of our investments in our Venezuelan subsidiaries was estimated based
on discounted cash flow projections of current and expected operating losses in the foreseeable future and our ability to operate the business on a sustainable basis. Our fair value estimate reflects U.S. dollar exchange and discount rate
assumptions that reflect the inflation and economic uncertainty in Venezuela.    Beginning in 2016, we will no longer include net revenues, earnings or net assets of
our Venezuelan subsidiaries within our consolidated financial statements. Under the cost method of accounting, we will recognize earnings only to the extent cash is received from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Given the current and ongoing difficult
economic, regulatory and business environment in Venezuela, there continues to be significant uncertainty related to our operations in Venezuela, and we expect these conditions will continue for the foreseeable future. We will monitor the extent of
our ability to control our Venezuelan operations and the liquidity and availability of U.S. dollars at different rates as our current situation in Venezuela may change over time and lead to consolidation at a future date.  
 For 2015 and prior periods presented, the operating results of our Venezuela operations were included in our consolidated statements of earnings. During this time, we
recognized a number of currency-related remeasurement losses resulting from devaluations of the Venezuela bolivar exchange rates we historically used to source U.S. dollars for purchases of imported raw materials, packaging and other goods and
services. The following table sets forth a history of the remeasurement losses, the deconsolidation loss and historical operating results and financial position of our Venezuelan subsidiaries for the periods presented:  
      66  

(1) 
 Represents the financial position of our Venezuelan subsidiaries prior to the accounting change on December 31, 2015.    
  Argentina.  On December 16, 2015, the new Argentinean government fiscal authority announced the lifting of strict currency controls and reduced restrictions
of exports and imports. The next day, the value of the Argentine peso relative to the U.S. dollar fell by 36% and remained relatively stable at this level through December 31, 2015. Further volatility in the exchange rate is expected. While the
business operating environment remains challenging, we continue to monitor and actively manage our investment and exposures in Argentina. Although our ability to effectively hedge against currency fluctuations was reduced during the presidential
transition in December, the hedging markets have returned to normal operating levels, allowing us to continue executing our hedging programs. We continue refining our product portfolio to improve our product offerings, mix and profitability. We also
continue to implement additional cost initiatives to protect the business. While further currency declines could have an adverse impact on our ongoing results of operations, we believe the actions by the new government to reduce economic controls
and business restrictions will provide favorable opportunities for our Argentinean subsidiaries. Our Argentinian operations contributed approximately $755 million, or 2.5% of consolidated net revenues and approximately $45 million, or 0.5% of
consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the net monetary liabilities of our Argentina operations were not material. Argentina is not designated as a highly-inflationary economy for
accounting purposes, so we record currency translation adjustments within equity and realized exchange gains and losses on transactions in earnings.     Other
Countries.  Since we have operations in over 80 countries and sell in 165 countries, we regularly monitor economic and currency-related risks and seek to take protective measures in response to these exposures. Some of the countries in which we
do business have had significant economic uncertainty recently. These include Brazil, China, Russia, Turkey and Ukraine, most of which have had either currency devaluation or volatility. We continue to monitor operations, currencies and net monetary
exposures in these countries. At this time, we do not have material net monetary asset exposures or risk to our operating results from changing to highly inflationary accounting in these countries.  
  Cash and Cash Equivalents:     Cash and cash equivalents include demand deposits
with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.     Transfers of Financial Assets:   
 We account for transfers of financial assets as sales when we have surrendered control over the related assets. Whether control has been relinquished requires, among
other things, an evaluation of relevant legal considerations and an assessment of the nature and extent of our continuing involvement with the assets transferred. We use these programs periodically when circumstances are favorable to manage
liquidity. Gains and losses stemming from transfers reported as sales are included as an offset to net revenue in the consolidated statements of earnings. Assets obtained and liabilities incurred in connection with transfers reported as sales are
initially recognized on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value.  
      67  

On December 19, 2013 in Europe and on December 22, 2015 in the United States, we entered into uncommitted
revolving non-recourse accounts receivable factoring arrangements with a major global bank. The facilities, whose maximum combined capacity is $820 million, will remain available unless terminated by either party.  
 Under the arrangements, we may sell eligible short-term trade receivables to the bank in exchange for cash. The transfers are reported as sales of trade receivables
within our consolidated financial statements. We continue to service the receivables sold, acting solely as a collecting agent on behalf of the bank. We recorded losses on these sales of $3 million in 2015 and $2 million in 2014. The outstanding
principal amount of receivables sold under the combined facilities amounted to $570 million in 2015 and $211 million in 2014.     Inventories:   
 We value our inventory using the average cost method. We also record inventory allowances for overstock and obsolete inventories due to ingredient and packaging changes.
    Long-Lived Assets:     Property, plant and equipment are stated at
historical cost and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 20 years and buildings and building improvements over periods up
to 40 years.    We review long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for realizability on an ongoing basis. Changes in depreciation, generally
accelerated depreciation, are determined and recorded when estimates of the remaining useful lives or residual values of long-term assets change. We also review for impairment when conditions exist that indicate the carrying amount of the assets may
not be fully recoverable. In those circumstances, we perform undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. When testing for asset impairment, we group assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows
are separately identifiable. Any impairment loss is calculated as the excess of the asset s carrying value over its estimated fair value. Fair value is estimated based on the undiscounted cash flows for the asset group over the remaining useful
life or based on the expected cash proceeds for the asset less costs of disposal. Any significant impairment losses would be recorded within asset impairment and exit costs in the consolidated statements of earnings.  
  Software Costs:     We capitalize certain computer software and software
development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives
of the software, which do not exceed seven years.     Goodwill and Non-Amortizable Intangible Assets:   
 We test goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on October 1. We assess goodwill impairment risk throughout the year by
performing a qualitative review of entity-specific, industry, market and general economic factors affecting our goodwill reporting units. We review our operating segment and reporting unit structure for goodwill testing annually or as significant
changes in the organization occur. Annually, we may perform qualitative testing or elect to do quantitative testing instead, depending on prior test results, current year developments, current risk evaluations and other practical considerations. In
the event that significant potential goodwill impairment risk exists for a specific reporting unit, we apply a two-step quantitative test. The first step compares the reporting unit s estimated fair value with its carrying value. We estimate a
reporting unit s fair value using a discounted cash flow method which incorporates planned growth rates, market-based discount rates and estimates of residual value. This year, for our Europe and North America reporting units, we used a
market-based, weighted-average cost of capital of 6.8% to discount the projected cash flows of those operations. For our Latin America, Asia Pacific and EEMEA reporting units, we used a risk-rated discount rate of 9.8%. Estimating the fair value of
individual reporting units requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, industry and economic conditions, and our actual results and conditions may differ over time. If the carrying value of a reporting unit s net
assets exceeds its fair value, we would apply a second step to measure the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill is impaired and its
carrying value is reduced to the implied fair value of the goodwill.    Annually we assess non-amortizable intangible assets for impairment by performing a
qualitative review and assessing events and circumstances that could affect the fair value or carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets. If significant potential impairment risk exists for a specific asset, we quantitatively test it
for impairment by comparing its estimated fair value with its carrying value. We determine estimated fair value using planned growth rates, market-based discount rates and estimates of royalty rates. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its
fair value, we consider the asset impaired and reduce its carrying value to the estimated fair value. We amortize definite-lived intangible assets over their estimated useful lives and evaluate them for impairment as we do other long-lived assets.
 
      68  

Insurance and Self-Insurance:   
 We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for a number of risks, including workers  compensation, general liability, automobile liability, product
liability and our obligation for employee healthcare benefits. We estimate the liabilities associated with these risks on an undiscounted basis by evaluating and making judgments about historical claims experience and other actuarial assumptions and
the estimated impact on future results.     Revenue Recognition:     We
recognize revenues when title and risk of loss pass to customers, which generally occurs upon delivery or shipment of goods. Revenues are recorded net of sales incentives and trade promotions and include all shipping and handling charges billed to
customers. Our shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales. Provisions for product returns and other trade allowances are also recorded as reductions to revenues within the same period that the revenue is recognized.  
  Marketing and Research and Development:     We promote our products with
advertising, marketing, sales incentives and trade promotions. These programs include, but are not limited to, cooperative advertising, in-store displays, consumer promotions, new product introduction fees, discounts, coupons, rebates and
volume-based incentives. We expense advertising costs either in the period the advertising first takes place or as incurred. Sales incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction to revenues based on amounts estimated due to
customers and consumers at the end of a period. We base these estimates principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. For interim reporting purposes, advertising expenses and sales incentives are charged to operations as a percentage
of volume, based on estimated volume and estimated program spending. We do not defer costs on our year-end consolidated balance sheet and all marketing costs are recorded as an expense in the year incurred. Advertising expense was $1,542 million in
2015, $1,552 million in 2014 and $1,721 million in 2013. We expense product research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expense was $409 million in 2015, $455 million in 2014 and $471 million in 2013. We record marketing and
research and development expenses within selling, general and administrative expenses.     Employee Benefit Plans:   
 We provide a range of benefits to our current and retired employees. These include pension benefits, postretirement health care benefits and postemployment benefits
depending upon jurisdiction, tenure, job level and other factors. Local statutory requirements govern many of the benefit plans we provide around the world. Local government plans generally cover health care benefits for retirees outside the United
States, Canada and United Kingdom. Our U.S., Canadian and U.K. subsidiaries provide health care and other benefits to most retired employees. Our postemployment benefit plans provide primarily severance benefits for eligible salaried and certain
hourly employees. The cost for these plans is recognized in earnings primarily over the working life of the covered employee.     Financial Instruments:   
 We use financial instruments to manage our currency exchange rate, commodity price and interest rate risks. We monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall
risk management program, which focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that the volatility of these markets may have on our operating results. A principal objective of our risk
management strategies is to reduce significant, unanticipated earnings fluctuations that may arise from volatility in currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, principally through the use of derivative instruments.  
 We use a combination of primarily currency forward contracts, futures, options and swaps; commodity forward contracts, futures and options; and interest rate swaps to
manage our exposure to cash flow variability, protect the value of our existing currency assets and liabilities and protect the value of our debt. See Note 9,  Financial Instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for more
information on the types of derivative instruments we use.    We record derivative financial instruments on a gross basis and at fair value in our consolidated
balance sheets within other current assets or other current liabilities due to their relatively short-term duration. Cash flows from derivative instruments are classified in the consolidated statements of cash flows based on the nature of the
derivative instrument. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge, to the extent that the hedge is effective, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) and reclassified to
earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Changes in fair value of economic hedges and the ineffective portion of all hedges are recognized in current period earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair
value hedge, along with the changes in the fair value of the related hedged asset or liability, are recorded in earnings in the same period. We use  
      69  

non-U.S. dollar denominated debt to hedge a portion of our net investment in non-U.S. operations against adverse movements in exchange rates, with currency movements related to the debt and net
investment and the related deferred taxes recorded within currency translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses).    In order to
qualify for hedge accounting, a specified level of hedging effectiveness between the derivative instrument and the item being hedged must exist at inception and throughout the hedged period. We must also formally document the nature of and
relationship between the derivative and the hedged item, as well as our risk management objectives, strategies for undertaking the hedge transaction and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for a hedge of a forecasted transaction,
the significant characteristics and expected term of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that the forecasted transaction will occur. If it is no longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction
will occur, we would recognize the gain or loss related to the derivative in earnings.    When we use derivatives, we are exposed to credit and market risks. Credit
risk exists when a counterparty to a derivative contract might fail to fulfill its performance obligations under the contract. We reduce our credit risk by entering into transactions with counterparties with high quality, investment grade credit
ratings, limiting the amount of exposure with each counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties. We also maintain a policy of requiring that all significant, non-exchange traded derivative contracts with a duration of
one year or longer are governed by an International Swaps and Derivatives Association master agreement. Market risk exists when the value of a derivative or other financial instrument might be adversely affected by changes in market conditions and
commodity prices, currency exchange rates or interest rates. We manage derivative market risk by limiting the types of derivative instruments and derivative strategies we use and the degree of market risk that we plan to hedge through the use of
derivative instruments.     Commodity cash flow hedges . We are exposed to price risk related to forecasted purchases of certain commodities that we primarily
use as raw materials. We enter into commodity forward contracts primarily for wheat, sugar and other sweeteners, soybean and vegetable oils and cocoa. Commodity forward contracts generally are not subject to the accounting requirements for
derivative instruments and hedging activities under the normal purchases exception. We also use commodity futures and options to hedge the price of certain input costs, including cocoa, energy costs, wheat, sugar and other sweeteners, soybean and
vegetable oils and dairy. Some of these derivative instruments are highly effective and qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We also sell commodity futures to unprice future purchase commitments, and we occasionally use related futures to
cross-hedge a commodity exposure. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use financial instruments for speculative purposes.  
  Currency exchange cash flow hedges . We use various financial instruments to mitigate our exposure to changes in exchange rates from  third-party  and intercompany current and forecasted transactions. These instruments may include currency exchange forward contracts, futures, options and swaps. Based on the size and location of our businesses, we
use these instruments to hedge our exposure to certain currencies, including the euro, pound sterling, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar.     Interest rate cash flow
and fair value hedges . We manage interest rate volatility by modifying the pricing or maturity characteristics of certain liabilities so that the net impact on expense is not, on a material basis, adversely affected by movements in interest
rates. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged fixed-rate liabilities appreciate or depreciate in market value. We expect the effect of this unrealized appreciation or depreciation to be substantially offset by our gains or losses on the
derivative instruments that are linked to these hedged liabilities. We use derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps that have indices related to the pricing of specific liabilities as part of our interest rate risk management strategy.
As a matter of policy, we do not use highly leveraged derivative instruments for interest rate risk management. We use interest rate swaps to economically convert a portion of our fixed-rate debt into variable-rate debt. Under the interest rate swap
contracts, we agree with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts, which is calculated based on an agreed-upon notional amount. We also use interest rate swaps to hedge
the variability of interest payment cash flows on a portion of our future debt obligations. Substantially all of these derivative instruments are highly effective and qualify for hedge accounting treatment.  
  Hedges of net investments in non-U.S. operations . We have numerous investments outside the United States. The net assets of these subsidiaries are exposed to
changes and volatility in currency exchange rates. We use local currency denominated debt to hedge our non-U.S. net investments against adverse movements in exchange rates. We designated our euro, pound sterling and Swiss franc denominated
borrowings as a net investment hedge of a portion of our overall European operations. The gains and losses on our net investment in these designated European operations are economically offset by losses and gains on our euro, pound sterling and
Swiss franc denominated borrowings. The change in the debt s value, net of deferred taxes, is recorded in the currency translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses).  
      70  

Income Taxes:     We recognize tax
benefits in our financial statements when uncertain tax positions are assessed more likely than not to be sustained upon audit. The amount we recognize is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being
realized upon ultimate settlement.    We recognize deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences, operating loss carryforwards and tax credit
carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  
  New Accounting Pronouncements:     In January 2016, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) issued an Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) which provides updated guidance for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial assets and liabilities. The ASU is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017. We are currently assessing the impact across our operations and on our consolidated financial statements.    In
November 2015, the FASB issued an ASU that requires all deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in the balance sheet. The new standard did not change the current requirement to offset deferred tax liabilities and assets
within a tax-paying component of an entity. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. It can also be applied either prospectively or retrospectively to all periods presented. We
early adopted the new standard on December 31, 2015 on a prospective basis. We classified deferred taxes as non-current on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2015. No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted.  
   In September 2015, the FASB issued an ASU that eliminates the requirement for an acquirer in a business combination to account for measurement-period adjustments
retrospectively. Under the new guidance, measurement-period adjustments should be accounted for during the period in which the entity determines the amount of the adjustment. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2015, with early adoption permitted, and should be applied prospectively to open measurement periods after the effective date, regardless of the acquisition date. We elected to early adopt and will apply the standard in our accounting for the
acquisitions that we closed during the third quarter of 2015. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for more information.       In July 2015, the
FASB issued an ASU that simplifies the guidance on the subsequent measurement of inventory. U.S. GAAP currently requires an entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost or market. Previously, market could be replacement cost, net realizable
value or net realizable value less an approximate normal profit margin. Under the new standard, inventory should be valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016,
with early adoption permitted. We early adopted the new standard on January 1, 2016 on a prospective basis. The adoption of the standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In May 2015, the FASB issued an ASU that applies to reporting entities that elect to measure the fair value of an investment using the net asset value ( NAV )
per share (or its equivalent) practical expedient. This ASU removes the requirement to include investments measured using the practical expedient within fair value hierarchy disclosures. Also, practical expedient disclosures previously required for
all eligible investments are now only required for investments for which the practical expedient has been elected. The update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. As we measure certain
defined benefit plan assets using the NAV practical expedient, we adopted the new standard on January 1, 2016. The new standard will impact our future pension disclosures and is not expected to otherwise have an impact on our consolidated
financial statements.    In April 2015, the FASB issued an ASU that provides guidance on evaluating whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license.
If there is a software license component, software licensing accounting should be applied; otherwise, service contract accounting should be applied. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption
permitted. We adopted the new standard on January 1, 2016 and on a prospective basis. The standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In April 2015, the FASB issued an ASU that simplifies the presentation of debt issuance costs. The standard requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt
obligation to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt instead of being presented as an asset, similar to the presentation of debt discounts.
 
      71  

In August 2015, the FASB issued an update clarifying that for line-of-credit arrangements entities may continue to defer debt issuance costs as an asset. The ASU represents a change in accounting
principle and requires retrospective application. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. We early adopted the new standard on December 31, 2015 and reclassified historical
deferred debt issuance costs related to debt other than line-of-credit arrangements from long-term other assets to offset the related debt obligations.    In February
2015, the FASB issued an ASU that amends current consolidation guidance related to the evaluation of whether certain legal entities should be consolidated. The standard modifies both the variable interest entity ( VIE ) model and the
voting interest model, including analyses of whether limited partnerships are VIEs and the impact of service fees and related party interests in determining if an entity is a VIE to the reporting entity. The guidance is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. We adopted the new standard on January 1, 2016 and we do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  
 In May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU on revenue recognition from contracts with customers. The new ASU outlines a new, single comprehensive model for companies to use in
accounting for revenue. The core principle is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to be entitled to receive in
exchange for the goods or services. The ASU also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows from customer contracts, including significant judgments made in recognizing revenue. In May
2015, the FASB proposed changes to the new guidance in the areas of licenses and identifying performance obligations. In August 2015, the FASB issued an ASU that defers the effective date by one year to annual reporting periods beginning after
December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted as of the original effective date which was for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The ASU may be applied retrospectively to historical periods presented or as a
cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We have made progress in our due diligence and scoping reviews and continue to assess the impact of the new standard across our operations and on our consolidated financial statements. We
anticipate adopting the new standard on January 1, 2018.     Reclassifications:   
 Certain amounts previously reported have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. See above for reclassifications made related to deferred debt
issuance costs.  
   Note 2. Divestitures and Acquisitions   
   Coffee Business Transactions:     On July 2, 2015, we
completed transactions to combine our wholly owned coffee businesses (including our coffee portfolio in France) with those of D.E Master Blenders 1753 B.V. ( DEMB ) to create a new company, Jacobs Douwe Egberts or JDE. We currently hold a
43.5% equity interest in JDE and Acorn Holdings B.V. ( AHBV ), owner of DEMB, holds the remaining 56.5% equity interest.    In connection with the
contribution of our global coffee businesses to JDE, we recorded a pre-tax gain of $6.8 billion (or $6.6 billion after taxes) in 2015. We also recorded approximately $1.0 billion of pre-tax net gains related to hedging the expected cash proceeds
from the transactions as described further below.    The consideration we have received to date consists of    3.8
billion of cash ($4.2 billion U.S. dollars as of July 2, 2015), a 43.5% equity interest in JDE and $794 million in receivables (related to sales price adjustments and tax formation cost payments). During the third quarter of 2015, we also
recorded $283 million of cash and receivables from JDE related to reimbursement of costs that we incurred in separating our coffee businesses. The cash and equity consideration we received at closing reflects that we retained our interest in a
Korea-based joint venture, Dongsuh Foods Corporation. During the second quarter of 2015, we also completed the sale of our interest in a Japanese coffee joint venture, Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. ( AGF ). In lieu of contributing our
interest in the AGF joint venture to JDE, we contributed the net cash proceeds from the sale, and the transaction did not change the consideration received for our global coffee businesses. Please see discussion of the divestiture of AGF below under
 Other Divestitures, Acquisitions and Sales of Property .  
      72  

During the fourth quarter, we and JDE concluded negotiations of a sales price adjustment and completed the valuation of our
investment in JDE. Primarily related to the negotiated resolution of the sales price adjustment in the fourth quarter, we recorded a $313 million reduction in the pre-tax gain on the coffee transaction, reducing the $7.1 billion estimated gain in
the third quarter to the $6.8 billion final gain for 2015. As part of our sales price negotiations, we retained the right to collect future cash payments if certain estimated pension liabilities come in over an agreed amount in the future. As such,
we may recognize additional income related to this negotiated term in the future.    The final value of our investment in JDE on July 2, 2015 was    4.1 billion, or $4.5 billion. The fair value of the JDE investment was determined using both income-based and market-based valuation techniques. The discounted cash flow analysis reflected growth,
discount and tax rates and other assumptions reflecting the underlying combined businesses and countries in which the combined coffee businesses operate.    In
connection with the expected receipt of cash in euros at the time of closing, we entered into a number of consecutive currency exchange forward contracts in 2014 and 2015 to lock in an equivalent expected value in U.S. dollars as of the date the
coffee business transactions were first announced in May 2014. Cumulatively, we realized aggregate net gains and received cash of approximately $1.0 billion on these hedging contracts that increased the cash we received in connection with the coffee
business transactions from $4.2 billion in cash consideration received to $5.2 billion. In connection with these currency contracts and the transfer of the sale proceeds to our subsidiaries that deconsolidated net assets and shares, we recognized a
net gain of $628 million in 2014 and a net gain of $436 million in 2015 within interest and other expense, net.    Prior to the July 2, 2015 closing, we received
conditional approval for the coffee business combination from the European Commission following their antitrust evaluation. The European Commission s ruling was conditioned upon JDE s divestiture of the majority of the EU-based  Carte
Noire  business and DEMB s  Merrild  business, primarily in France and Denmark. Those businesses have been transferred to JDE. JDE is completing the sales of these businesses in line with the European Commission agreements. As these
businesses were recorded at their fair value as of July 2, 2015, reflecting the then pending sale values, we did not and will not record any gain or loss on the sale of these businesses in our share of JDE s earnings.  
 In our historical consolidated results, the pre-tax earnings of the coffee businesses we contributed to JDE were included in periods prior to the July 2, 2015
closing date and as reflected below for the periods presented:       
 
  We also incurred incremental expenses related to readying our global coffee businesses for the transactions that totaled $278
million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Of these total expenses, $123 million was recorded within asset impairment and exit costs in 2015 and the remainder was recorded within
selling, general and administrative expenses of primarily our Europe segment, as well as within our Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa ( EEMEA ) segment and general corporate expenses.  
      73  

On July 2, 2015, we deconsolidated the following assets and liabilities in connection with the deconsolidation of our
global coffee businesses (in millions). The amounts below also include the fourth quarter final settlement of coffee business-related pension obligations as further described below.  

In addition to the net assets we deconsolidated, we also reduced accumulated other comprehensive losses for the transfer of coffee
business-related pension obligations in the amount of $90 million in 2015. The timing of these reductions during the third and fourth quarters of 2015 corresponded to when the Company was discharged from the obligations under the plans.  
 As a result of the transaction, our snacks product categories, consisting of biscuits, chocolate, gum and candy, make up the majority of our business portfolio,
contributing approximately 85% of our 2015 and 2014 net revenues after excluding coffee net revenues. By retaining a significant stake in JDE, the coffee category will continue to be significant to our results. As such, we have reflected our
historical coffee results and equity earnings from JDE in results from continuing operations reflecting the fact that results from the coffee category continue to be a significant part of our net earnings and business strategy going forward.  
      74  

Summary Financial Information for Equity Method Investments:   
 Summarized financial information for JDE and our other equity method investments is reflected below.  

(1) 
 Includes $33 million of amortization expense related to a basis difference between the U.S. GAAP accounting basis for our equity method investments and the U.S. GAAP accounting basis of their equity.    

(2) 
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with
the accounting for JDE earnings, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income. For the six months ended December 31, 2015, after-tax equity method
investment net earnings were less than $1 million on a combined basis. Earnings from equity method investments recorded within segment operating income were $56 million for the six months ended July 2, 2015, $113 million for the year ended December
31, 2014 and $107 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Principles of Consolidation , for additional information.    
 Additionally, our proportionate share of JDE s and our other equity method investments  other comprehensive losses was $137 million in 2015, $28 million in
2014 and $1 million in 2013 which were recorded within our consolidated statement of other comprehensive earnings.     JDE Capital Increase:   
 On December 18, 2015, AHBV and we agreed to provide JDE additional capital to pay down some of its debt with lenders. Our pro rata share of the capital increase was
   499 million ($544 million U.S. dollars as of December 18, 2015) and was made in return for additional shares in JDE such that we retained our 43.5% interest in JDE following the
capital increase. To fund our share of the capital increase, we contributed    460 million ($501 million) of JDE receivables and made a
   39 million ($43 million) cash payment.    Planned Keurig Transaction:   
 On December 6, 2015, we agreed to make an investment in Keurig Green Mountain Inc. ( Keurig ), which is contingent upon the successful completion of a
planned acquisition of Keurig by JAB Holding Co. ( JAB  and parent company of AHBV). Following the close of JAB s planned acquisition of Keurig in early 2016, we intend to exchange a portion of our equity interest in JDE for an equity
interest in Keurig. Following the exchange of shares, we expect our ownership in JDE to decrease to approximately 26.5% and our interest in Keurig to be somewhat lower. We expect to account for both investments under the equity method, resulting in
our recognizing our share of their earnings within our earnings and our share of their dividends within our cash flows. Our governance rights in JDE will not change significantly and we will have similar governance rights in Keurig following the
transaction. Our investment in Keurig will follow the acquisition of Keurig by JAB, which is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2016 or early in the second quarter. As our exchange of shares in JDE for the investment in
Keurig is conditioned upon the actions of JAB and Keurig s existing shareholders and is subject to further regulatory antitrust reviews, we have not reflected the portion of our investment in JDE that would be exchanged for the Keurig
investment as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2015.  
      75  

Spin-Off of Kraft Foods Group:   
 We divested the Kraft Foods Group grocery business in a spin-off completed on October 1, 2012. In 2013, in connection with the Kraft Foods Group business, we
received cash and recorded income from the resolution of the legal matter described below and we received cash and retired a receivable related to a Spin-Off stock award cash settlement with Kraft Foods Group. We also incurred Spin-Off transaction,
transition and financing and related costs ( Spin-Off Costs ) through the end of 2014 as noted below.    On December 13, 2013, an independent
arbitrator in our dispute with the Starbucks Coffee Company ( Starbucks ) issued a decision and Final Award that Kraft Foods Global, Inc. (which became Kraft Foods Group in the Spin-Off), the named party in the proceeding, had proven that
it was entitled to recover and that Starbucks was required to pay $2,764 million in total cash compensation for Starbucks  unilateral termination of the Starbucks packaged coffee business license and supply agreement. The award included
compensation for 135% of the determined fair market value of the agreement for improper termination as well as prejudgment interest of $521 million and Kraft Foods Group s attorney s fees, which the parties agreed would equal $15 million.
Starbucks has paid all of the amount owed pursuant to the ruling. Under the Separation and Distribution Agreement between Kraft Foods Group and us, Kraft Foods Group directed the recovery awarded in the arbitration proceeding to us in connection
with the Spin-Off recapitalization plans. Accordingly, the pre-tax gain on the resolution of the Starbucks arbitration of $2.5 billion ($1.6 billion net of tax) was recorded in earnings from discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of 2013.
   In March 2013, we also collected $55 million from Kraft Foods Group related to the cash settlement of stock awards held by our respective employees at the time of
the Spin-Off as further described in Note 11,  Stock Plans .    In 2014, we concluded our Spin-Off transition plans. We recorded Spin-Off Costs of $35 million in
2014 and $62 million in 2013 in pre-tax earnings within selling, general and administrative expenses. Through the end of 2014, we incurred total Spin-Off Costs of approximately $1.2 billion.  
  Other Divestitures, Acquisitions and Sales of Property:     On July 15,
2015, we acquired an 80% interest in a biscuit operation in Vietnam, which is now a subsidiary within our Asia Pacific segment. Total cash paid to date for the biscuit operation, intellectual property, non-compete and consulting agreements less
purchase price adjustments received was 11,645 billion Vietnamese dong ($534 million U.S. dollars using applicable exchange rates on July 15 and November 27). We have made, received and expect to make the following cash payments in
connection with the acquisition:  

Subject to the satisfaction of final conditions, including the resolution of warranty, other claims and further purchase price adjustments, we expect to release previously escrowed funds of $90 million for the remaining
20% interest in the biscuit operation and to make a final payment of 759 billion Vietnamese dong ($34 million U.S. dollars using a December 31, 2015 exchange rate) for the non-compete and consulting agreements. We anticipate resolution of these
conditions by the end of the third quarter of 2016.      We are in the process of completing the valuation work for the acquired net assets. We have
recorded a preliminary allocation of the consideration paid including $10 million to inventory, $47 million to property, plant and equipment, $19 million to other net liabilities and $461 million of estimated goodwill. We recorded the non-compete
and consulting agreements as prepaid contracts within other current and non-current assets and they will be amortized into net earnings over the remaining contract terms. The acquisition added $121 million in incremental net revenues and $21 million
in incremental operating income in 2015. Additionally, we recorded acquisition costs of $7 million in 2015 and $2 million in 2014 and integration costs of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 within selling, general and
administrative expenses.    On April 23, 2015, we completed the divestiture of our 50% equity interest in AGF, our Japanese coffee joint venture, to our joint
venture partner, which generated cash proceeds of 27 billion Japanese yen ($225 million U.S. dollars as of April 23, 2015) and a pre-tax gain of $13 million (after-tax loss of $9 million). Upon closing, we divested our $99 million investment in
the joint venture, $65 million of goodwill and $41 million of accumulated other comprehensive losses. We also incurred approximately $7 million of transaction costs.  
      76  

On February 16, 2015, we acquired a U.S. snack food company, Enjoy Life Foods, within our North America segment. We
paid cash and settled debt totaling $81 million in connection with the acquisition. Upon finalizing the valuation of the acquired net assets during the second quarter, we recorded an $81 million purchase price allocation of $58 million in
identifiable intangible assets, $20 million of goodwill and $3 million of other net assets. The acquisition-related costs and operating results of the acquisition were not material to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 2015.    On February 22, 2013, we acquired the remaining interest in a biscuit operation in Morocco, which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary
within our EEMEA segment. We paid net cash consideration of $119 million, consisting of $155 million purchase price net of cash acquired of $36 million. Prior to the acquisition, our interest in the operation was accounted for under the equity
method. As a result of obtaining a controlling interest, we consolidated the operation and upon finalizing the valuation of the acquired net assets in the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded the fair value of acquired assets (including identifiable
intangible assets of $48 million), the liabilities assumed and goodwill of $209 million. During the quarter ended March 31, 2013, we also recorded a pre-tax gain of $22 million related to the remeasurement of our previously-held equity interest
in the operation to fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP and acquisition costs of $7 million in interest and other expense, net and selling, general and administrative expenses. We recorded integration charges of $4 million in 2014 and $4 million
in 2013 within cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses.    In 2013, we completed several divestitures primarily in our EEMEA and Europe
segments that generated cash proceeds of $60 million and pre-tax gains of $8 million. The divestitures included a salty snacks business in Turkey, a confectionery business in South Africa and a chocolate business in Spain. The aggregate operating
results of the 2013 divestitures were not material to our financial statements in any of the periods presented.    In 2013, we sold properties in India within our
Asia Pacific segment and in Italy, the United Kingdom and Norway within our Europe segment. The India property sale generated a $39 million pre-tax gain and $53 million of cash proceeds. The Europe property sales generated $29 million in pre-tax net
gains and $37 million of cash proceeds. We also have a $27 million receivable as of December 31, 2015 related to the United Kingdom property sale in 2013, of which $25 million was received in January 2016, with approximately $2 million to be
received within a year. The gains were recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses and cash proceeds were recorded in cash flows from other investing activities in the year ended December 31, 2013.  
   Note 3. Inventories   
  Inventories consisted of the following:       
 
  On July 2, 2015, we deconsolidated $469 million of net inventory with the coffee business transactions. See Note 2,
 Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for additional information.  
   Note 4. Property, Plant and Equipment   
  Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following:  

77  

On July 2, 2015, we deconsolidated $751 million of net property, plant and equipment with the coffee business
transactions. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for additional information.    Capital expenditures of $1,514
million for the year ended December 31, 2015 exclude $322 million of accrued capital expenditures remaining unpaid at December 31, 2015 and include payment for $388 million of capital expenditures that were accrued and unpaid at
December 31, 2014.    In connection with our restructuring programs, we recorded non-cash asset write-downs (including accelerated depreciation and asset
impairments) of $264 million in 2015, $173 million in 2014 and $89 million in 2013 (see Note 6,  Restructuring Programs ). These charges were recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings within asset impairment and exit costs as follows:

Note 5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets   
  Goodwill by reportable segment was:       
 
  Intangible assets consisted of the following:  

Non-amortizable intangible assets consist principally of brand names purchased through our acquisitions of Nabisco Holdings Corp.,
the Spanish and Portuguese operations of United Biscuits, the global  LU  biscuit business of Groupe Danone S.A. and Cadbury Limited. Amortizable intangible assets consist primarily of trademarks, customer-related intangibles, process
technology, licenses and non-compete agreements. At December 31, 2015, the weighted-average life of our amortizable intangible assets was 13.6 years.  
 Amortization expense for intangible assets was $181 million in 2015, $206 million in 2014 and $217 million in 2013. We currently estimate annual amortization expense
for each of the next five years to be approximately $180 million, estimated using December 31, 2015 exchange rates.  
      78  

Changes in goodwill and intangible assets consisted of:  

Changes to goodwill and intangibles were:  

Coffee business transactions and divestiture   On July 2, 2015, we deconsolidated $1,664 million of goodwill and less than $1 million of intangible assets in connection with the coffee business transactions.
On April 23, 2015, we completed the divestiture of our 50% equity interest in AGF, which resulted in divesting $65 million of goodwill.    

Acquisitions   On July 15, 2015, we acquired an 80% interest in a biscuit operation in Vietnam and recorded a preliminary allocation of $461 million of goodwill as we complete the final valuation work for the
acquisition. On February 16, 2015, we acquired Enjoy Life Foods and recorded $20 million of goodwill and $58 million in identifiable intangible assets.    

Asset Impairments   On December 31, 2015, in connection with the deconsolidation of Venezuela, we recorded $12 million of impairment charges as described below. We recorded $71 million of charges related to
four trademarks in 2015 and $57 million of charges related to two trademarks in 2014 as described below.      In 2015, 2014 and 2013, there were no
impairments of goodwill. In connection with our 2015 annual impairment testing, each of our reporting units had sufficient fair value in excess of carrying value. In connection with the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations on
December 31, 2015, we tested our Latin America reporting unit and determined the remaining businesses excluding Venezuela had sufficient fair value in excess of carrying value, such that there were no impairments of goodwill. While all
reporting units passed our annual impairment testing, if expectations are not met or specific valuation factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change significantly, then the estimated fair values of a reporting unit or reporting
units might decline and lead to a goodwill impairment in the future.    During our 2015 annual testing of non-amortizable intangible assets, we recorded $71 million
of impairment charges related to four trademarks. The impairments arose due to lower than expected product growth partly driven by decisions made in the fourth quarter to redirect support for the products to other regional and global brands and
slowdowns in local economies. We recorded charges related to candy and biscuit trademarks of $44 million in Asia Pacific, $22 million in Europe and $5 million in Latin America. The impairment charges were calculated as the excess of the carrying
value over the estimated fair value of the intangible assets on a global basis and were recorded within asset impairment and exit costs. We primarily use a relief of royalty valuation method, which utilizes estimates of future sales, growth
rates, royalty rates and discount rates in determining a brand s global fair value. During our 2015 intangible asset impairment review, we noted seven brands, including the four impaired trademarks, with $598 million of aggregate book
value as of December 31, 2015 that each had a fair value in excess of book value of 10% or less. While these intangible assets passed our annual impairment testing and we believe our current plans for each of these brands will allow them to
continue to not be impaired, if expectations are not met or specific valuation factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change significantly, then a brand or brands could become impaired in the future. In 2014, we recorded a $48
million charge related to a biscuit trademark in our Asia Pacific segment and a $9 million charge related to a candy trademark in our Europe segment. Additionally, in connection with the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations on
December 31, 2015, we recorded $12 million of impairment charges within the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela related to a biscuit trademark.  
      79  

Note 6. Restructuring Programs   
   2014-2018 Restructuring Program     On May 6, 2014, our
Board of Directors approved a $3.5 billion restructuring program, comprised of approximately $2.5 billion in cash costs and $1 billion in non-cash costs (the  2014-2018 Restructuring Program ), and up to $2.2 billion of capital
expenditures. The primary objective of the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program is to reduce our operating cost structure in both our supply chain and overhead costs. The program is intended primarily to cover severance as well as asset disposals and
other manufacturing-related one-time costs. Since inception, we have incurred total restructuring and related implementation charges of $1.4 billion related to the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program. We expect to incur the majority of the
program s remaining charges in 2016 and to complete the program by year-end 2018.     Restructuring Costs :  
 We recorded restructuring charges of $711 million 2015 and $274 million in 2014 within asset impairment and exit costs. The activity for the 2014-2018 Restructuring
Program liability for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was:       
 
  We spent $243 million in 2015 and $17 million in 2014 in cash severance and related costs. We also recognized non-cash pension
settlement losses (See Note 10,  Benefit Plans ), non-cash asset write-downs (including accelerated depreciation and asset impairments) and other non-cash adjustments totaling $273 million in 2015 and $28 million in 2014. At December 31,
2015, $351 million of our net restructuring liability was recorded within other current liabilities and $44 million was recorded within other long-term liabilities.  
  Implementation Costs:     Implementation costs are directly attributable to
restructuring activities; however, they do not qualify for special accounting treatment as exit or disposal activities. We believe the disclosure of implementation costs provides readers of our financial statements with more information on the total
costs of our 2014-2018 Restructuring Program. Implementation costs primarily relate to reorganizing our operations and facilities in connection with our supply chain reinvention program and other identified productivity and cost saving initiatives.
The costs include incremental expenses related to the closure of facilities, costs to terminate certain contracts and the simplification of our information systems. Within our continuing results of operations, we recorded implementation costs of
$291 million in 2015 and $107 million in 2014. We recorded these costs within cost of sales and general corporate expense within selling, general and administrative expenses.  
      80  

Restructuring and Implementation Costs in Operating Income:   
 During 2015 and 2014, we recorded restructuring and implementation costs related to the 2014-2018 Restructuring Program within operating income as follows:  

(1) 
 Includes adjustment for rounding.    
    2012-2014
Restructuring Program     On October 1, 2012, we completed the Spin-Off of our North American grocery business, Kraft Foods Group, to our shareholders. Prior
to this transaction, in 2012, our Board of Directors approved $1.5 billion of related restructuring and implementation costs (the  2012-2014 Restructuring Program ) reflecting primarily severance, asset disposals and other
manufacturing-related one-time costs. The primary objective of the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program was to ensure that Mondel z International and Kraft Foods Group were each set up to operate efficiently and execute on our respective business
strategies upon separation and in the future.    Of the $1.5 billion of 2012-2014 Restructuring Program costs, we retained approximately $925 million and Kraft Foods
Group retained the balance of the program. Through the end of 2014, we incurred total restructuring and related implementation charges of $899 million and completed incurring planned charges on the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program.  
  Restructuring Costs:     We recorded reversals to the restructuring charges of
$4 million 2015 related to accruals no longer required. We recorded restructuring charges of $360 million in 2014 and $267 million in 2013 within asset impairment and exit costs. During 2014, we also recorded out-of-period accruals for $73 million
of severance ($52 million related to 2014 and $21 million related to 2013) in connection with a change in the timing of accruals for ongoing negotiations with workers  councils and labor unions.  
      81  

The activity for the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program liability for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 was:

We spent $66 million in 2015 and $130 million in 2014 in cash severance and related costs. We also recognized non-cash pension
plan settlement losses (See Note 10,  Benefit Plans ), non-cash asset write-downs (including accelerated depreciation and asset impairments) and other non-cash adjustments totaling $4 million in 2015 and $161 million in 2014. At
December 31, 2015, $46 million of our net restructuring liability was recorded within other current liabilities and $1 million was recorded within other long-term liabilities.  
  Implementation Costs:     Implementation costs related to our 2012-2014
Restructuring Program primarily relate to activities in connection with the Spin-Off such as reorganizing our operations and facilities, the discontinuance of certain product lines and incremental expenses related to the closure of facilities,
replicating our information systems infrastructure and reorganizing our sales function. Within our continuing results of operations, we recorded implementation costs of $99 million in 2014 and $63 million in 2013. We recorded these costs within cost
of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses.     Restructuring and Implementation Costs in Operating Income:   
 During 2014 and 2013 and since inception of the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program, we recorded restructuring and implementation costs within operating income as follows:

(1) 
 Includes adjustment for rounding.    
 
      82  

Note 7. Integration Program and Cost Savings Initiatives   
   Cadbury Integration Program:     As a result of our
combination with Cadbury Limited (formerly, Cadbury Plc or  Cadbury ) in 2010, we launched an integration program (the  Integration Program ) to combine the Cadbury operations with our operations and realize expected annual cost
savings of approximately $750 million by the end of 2013 and revenue synergies from investments in distribution, marketing and product development. We achieved cost savings of approximately $800 million in 2012, a year ahead of schedule, and
achieved our planned revenue synergies in 2013. Through the end of 2013, we incurred total integration charges of approximately $1.5 billion and completed incurring planned charges on the Integration Program.  
 In 2013, we recorded Integration Program charges of $216 million in 2013 in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses within our Europe, EEMEA,
Asia Pacific and Latin America segments and we recorded reversals of Integration Program charges of $8 million in 2014 related to accruals no longer required. Changes in the Integration Program liability during 2015 and 2014 were:  

At December 31, 2015, $10 million of our net Integration Program liability was recorded within other current liabilities and
$26 million, primarily related to leased facilities no longer in use, was recorded within other long-term liabilities.     Other Integration Costs:   
 In connection with our acquisition of a biscuit operation in Vietnam in July 2015, we recorded integration charges of $9 million in 2015 in our Asia Pacific segment and
in connection with our acquisition of a biscuit operation in Morocco in February 2013, we recorded integration charges of $4 million in 2014 and $4 million in 2013 in our EEMEA segment. We recorded these charges in cost of sales and selling, general
and administrative expenses. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  for more information on the acquisition.     Cost Savings Initiatives:   
 Cost savings initiatives generally include exit, disposal and other project costs outside of our restructuring programs, the Cadbury Integration Program and our other
integration program costs. In 2013, we recorded a $20 million charge primarily within Latin America related to severance benefits provided to terminated employees and one-time charges and within North America related to supply chain reinvention team
expenses.  
   Note 8. Debt and Borrowing Arrangements   
   Short-Term Borrowings:     Our short-term borrowings and
related weighted-average interest rates consisted of:       
 
  Bank loans include borrowings on primarily uncommitted credit lines maintained by some of our international subsidiaries to meet
short-term working capital needs.  
      83  

Borrowing Arrangements:     We
maintain a revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, including working capital needs, and to support our commercial paper program. Our $4.5 billion multi-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility expires on October 11,
2018. The revolving credit agreement includes a covenant that we maintain a minimum shareholders  equity of at least $24.6 billion, excluding accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) and the cumulative effects of any changes in
accounting principles. At December 31, 2015, we complied with the covenant as our shareholders  equity as defined by the covenant was $38.0 billion. The revolving credit facility agreement also contains customary representations, covenants
and events of default. There are no credit rating triggers, provisions or other financial covenants that could require us to post collateral as security. As of December 31, 2015, no amounts were drawn on the facility.  
 Some of our international subsidiaries maintain primarily uncommitted credit lines to meet short-term working capital needs. Collectively, these credit lines amounted
to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2015 and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2014. Borrowings on these lines amounted to $236 million at December 31, 2015 and $204 million at December 31, 2014.  
  Long-Term Debt:     Our long-term debt consisted of (interest rates are as of
December 31, 2015):       
 
  Deferred debt issuance costs of $46 million as of December 31, 2015 and $44 million as of December 31, 2014 are netted
against the related debt in the table above. As noted in Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   New Accounting Pronouncements,  these amounts were reclassified from long-term other assets to offset the related debt in the
fourth quarter of 2015.    As of December 31, 2015, aggregate maturities of our debt and capital leases based on stated contractual maturities, excluding
unamortized non-cash bond premiums, discounts, bank fees and mark-to-market adjustments of $(70) million, were (in millions):       
 
  On February 9, 2016, $1,750 million of our 4.125% U.S. dollar notes matured. The notes and accrued interest to date were paid
with net proceeds from the  fr .400 million Swiss franc-denominated notes issuance on January 26, 2016 and the    700 million euro-denominated notes issuance on January 21,
2016, as well as cash on hand and the issuance of commercial paper. As we refinanced $1,150 million of the matured notes with long-term debt issued in January 2016, we reflected this amount within long-term debt as of December 31, 2015.  
      84  

On January 26, 2016, we issued  fr .400 million of Swiss franc-denominated notes, or $399 million in U.S. dollars
locked in with a forward currency contract on January 12, 2016, consisting of:  
 
   We received
proceeds net of premiums and deferred financing costs of $398 million that were used to partially fund the February 2016 note maturity and for other general corporate purposes. We recorded approximately $1 million of premiums and deferred financing
costs, which will be amortized into interest expense over the life of the notes.    On January 21, 2016, we issued
   700 million of euro-denominated 1.625% notes, or $760 million in U.S. dollars locked in with a forward currency contract on January 13, 2016, that mature on January 20, 2023. We
received proceeds net of discounts and deferred financing costs of $752 million that were used to partially fund the February 2016 note maturity and for other general corporate purposes. We recorded approximately $8 million of discounts and deferred
financing costs, which will be amortized into interest expense over the life of the notes.    On November 30, 2015, we completed a cash tender offer and retired
 247 million of British pound sterling-denominated 7.250% notes, or approximately $372 million in U.S. dollars as of November 30, 2015, due in July 2018. We financed the repurchase of these notes, including the payment of accrued
interest and other costs incurred, from net proceeds received from the  400 million British pound sterling-denominated notes issuance on November 25, 2015 described below. In connection with retiring this debt, during the three
months ended December 31, 2015, we recorded a $40 million loss on extinguishment of debt within interest expense related to the amount we paid to retire the debt in excess of its carrying value and from recognizing unamortized premiums and
deferred financing costs in earnings at the time of the debt extinguishment. Cash costs related to tendering the debt are included in long-term debt repayments in the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2015.
   On November 25, 2015, we issued  400 million of British pound sterling-denominated 4.500% notes, or $609 million in U.S. dollars locked in with a
forward currency contract on November 19, 2015, that mature on December 3, 2035. We received proceeds net of discounts and deferred financing costs of $604 million that were used to fund the November 2015 cash tender offer and for other general
corporate purposes. We recorded approximately $5 million of discounts and deferred financing costs, which will be amortized into interest expense over the life of the notes.  
 On October 6, 2015 we issued  fr .400 million of Swiss franc-denominated notes, or $410 million in U.S. dollars locked in with a forward currency contract on
September 21, 2015, consisting of:  
 
   We received
proceeds net of premiums and deferred financing costs of $410 million that were used for general corporate purposes and to fund upcoming debt maturities. We recorded the  fr .400 million of Swiss franc-denominated notes and less than $1 million
of premiums and deferred financing costs, which will be amortized into interest expense over the life of the notes.    On June 11, 2015,    400 million of our floating rate euro-denominated notes matured. The notes and accrued interest to date were paid with cash on hand and the issuance of commercial paper.  
 On March 30, 2015, we issued  fr .675 million of Swiss franc-denominated notes, or approximately $694 million in U.S. dollars as of March 31, 2015,
consisting of:  

We received net
proceeds of $675 million that were used for general corporate purposes. We recorded approximately $2 million of premiums and deferred financing costs, which will be amortized into interest expense over the life of the notes.  
 On March 20, 2015,    850 million of our 6.250% euro-denominated notes matured. The notes and accrued
interest to date were paid with the issuance of commercial paper and cash on hand.  
      85  

On March 20, 2015, we completed a cash tender offer and retired $2.5 billion of our long-term U.S. dollar debt
consisting of:  

We financed the repurchase of these notes, including the payment
of accrued interest and other costs incurred, from net proceeds received from the $2.8 billion notes issuance on March 6, 2015 described below and the issuance of commercial paper. In connection with retiring this debt, during the first three
months of 2015, we recorded a $708 million loss on extinguishment of debt within interest expense related to the amount we paid to retire the debt in excess of its carrying value and from recognizing unamortized discounts and deferred financing
costs in earnings at the time of the debt extinguishment. Cash costs related to tendering the debt are included in long-term debt repayments in the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2015. We also recognized $5
million of charges within interest expense from hedging instruments related to the retired debt. Upon extinguishing the debt, the deferred cash flow hedge amounts were recorded in earnings.  
 On March 6, 2015, we issued    2.0 billion of euro-denominated notes and  450 million of British
pound sterling-denominated notes, or approximately $2.8 billion in U.S. dollars as of March 31, 2015, consisting of:  

We received net
proceeds of $2,890 million that were used to fund the March 2015 tender offer and for other general corporate purposes. We recorded approximately $29 million of discounts and deferred financing costs, which will be amortized into interest expense
over the life of the notes.    On December 11, 2014,  300 million of our 5.375% British pound sterling bonds matured. The bonds and accrued interest
to date were paid with cash on hand and the issuance of commercial paper.    On February 19, 2014, $500 million of our 6.75% U.S. dollar notes matured. The notes
and accrued interest to date were paid with cash on hand and the issuance of commercial paper.    On February 6, 2014, we completed a cash tender offer and
retired $1.56 billion of our long-term U.S. dollar debt consisting of:  

We financed the repurchase of these notes, including the payment
of accrued interest and other costs incurred, from net proceeds received from the $3.0 billion notes issuance on January 16, 2014. In connection with retiring this debt, during the first six months of 2014, we recorded a $493 million loss
on extinguishment of debt within interest expense related to the amount we paid to retire the debt in excess of its carrying value and from recognizing unamortized discounts and deferred financing costs in earnings at the time of the debt
extinguishment. Cash costs related to tending the debt are included in long-term debt repayments in the 2014 consolidated statement of cash flows. We also recognized $2 million in interest expense related to interest rate cash flow hedges that
were deferred in accumulated other comprehensive losses and recognized into earnings over the life of the debt. Upon extinguishing the debt, the deferred cash flow hedge amounts were recorded in earnings.  
      86  

On January 16, 2014, we issued $3.0 billion of U.S. dollar notes, consisting of:  

We received net proceeds of $2,982
million that were used to fund the February 2014 tender offer, pay down commercial paper borrowings and for other general corporate purposes. We recorded approximately $18 million of discounts and deferred financing costs, which will be amortized
into interest expense over the life of the notes.    Our weighted-average interest rate on our total debt was 3.7% as of December 31, 2015, down from 4.3%, as of
December 31, 2014.     Fair Value of Our Debt:     The fair value of our
short-term borrowings at December 31, 2015 and 2014 reflects current market interest rates and approximates the amounts we have recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of our long-term debt was determined using quoted prices
in active markets (Level 1 valuation data) for the publicly traded debt obligations. At December 31, 2015, the aggregate fair value of our total debt was $15,908 million and its carrying value was $15,398 million. At December 31, 2014, the
aggregate fair value of our total debt was $18,463 million and its carrying value was $16,656 million.     Interest and Other Expense, net:   
 Interest and other expense, net within our results of continuing operations consisted of:  

See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  and Note 9,  Financial Instruments,  for information on the currency
exchange forward contracts associated with the coffee business transactions. Also see Note 9,  Financial Instruments , for information on the loss related to U.S. dollar interest rate swaps no longer designated as accounting cash flow hedges
during the first quarter of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. See Note 13,  Commitments and Contingencies,  for information on the benefit from the resolution of the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification.  
      87  

Note 9. Financial Instruments   
   Fair Value of Derivative Instruments:     Derivative
instruments were recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:       
 
    During 2015 and 2014, derivatives designated as accounting hedges include cash flow and fair value hedges and derivatives
not designated as accounting hedges include economic hedges. Non-U.S. debt designated as a hedge of our net investments in non-U.S. operations is not reflected in the table above, but is included in long-term debt summarized in Note 8,  Debt and
Borrowing Arrangements . We record derivative assets and liabilities on a gross basis in our consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of our asset derivatives is recorded within other current assets and the fair value of our liability
derivatives is recorded within other current liabilities.       The fair values (asset / (liability)) of our derivative instruments were determined using:  

88  

Level 1 financial assets and liabilities consist of exchange-traded commodity futures and listed options. The fair value of
these instruments is determined based on quoted market prices on commodity exchanges. Our exchange-traded derivatives are generally subject to master netting arrangements that permit net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty when
certain criteria are met, such as in the event of default. We also are required to maintain cash margin accounts in connection with funding the settlement of our open positions, and the margin requirements generally fluctuate daily based on market
conditions. We have recorded margin deposits related to our exchange-traded derivatives of $22 million as of December 31, 2015 and $84 million as of December 31, 2014 within other current assets. Based on our net asset or liability
positions with individual counterparties, in the event of default and immediate net settlement of all of our open positions, for derivatives we have in a net liability position, we would owe $3 million as of December 31, 2014, and for
derivatives we have in a net asset position, our counterparties would owe us a total of $52 million as of December 31, 2015 and $38 million as of December 31, 2014.  
 Level 2 financial assets and liabilities consist primarily of over-the-counter ( OTC ) currency exchange forwards, options and swaps; commodity forwards and
options; and interest rate swaps. Our currency exchange contracts are valued using an income approach based on observable market forward rates less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount. Commodity derivatives are valued using an income
approach based on the observable market commodity index prices less the contract rate multiplied by the notional amount or based on pricing models that rely on market observable inputs such as commodity prices. Our calculation of the fair value of
interest rate swaps is derived from a discounted cash flow analysis based on the terms of the contract and the observable market interest rate curve. Our calculation of the fair value of financial instruments takes into consideration the risk of
nonperformance, including counterparty credit risk. Our OTC derivative transactions are governed by International Swap Dealers Association agreements and other standard industry contracts. Under these agreements, we do not post nor require
collateral from our counterparties. The majority of our commodity and currency exchange OTC derivatives do not have a legal right of set-off. In connection with our OTC derivatives that could be net-settled in the event of default, assuming all
parties were to fail to comply with the terms of the agreements, for derivatives we have in a net liability position, we would owe $101 million as of December 31, 2015 and $156 million as of December 31, 2014, and for derivatives we have
in a net asset position, our counterparties would owe us a total of $64 million as of December 31, 2015 and $72 million as of December 31, 2014. We manage the credit risk in connection with these and all our derivatives by entering into
transactions with counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting the amount of exposure with each counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties.  
  Derivative Volume:     The net notional values of our derivative instruments
were:      
    Cash Flow Hedges:     Cash flow hedge activity,
net of taxes, within accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) included:       

89  

After-tax gains / (losses) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) into net earnings were:

After-tax gains / (losses) recognized in other comprehensive earnings / (losses) were:  

Pre-tax gains / (losses) on ineffectiveness recognized in net earnings from continuing operations were:  

Pre-tax gains / (losses) on amounts excluded from effectiveness testing recognized in net earnings from continuing operations
included a pre-tax loss of $34 million recognized in the first quarter of 2015 within interest and other expense, net related to certain U.S. dollar interest rate swaps that we no longer designated as accounting cash flow hedges due to a change in
financing and hedging plans. Our plans to issue U.S. dollar debt changed and we issued euro, British pound sterling and Swiss franc-denominated notes due to lower overall cost and our decision to hedge a greater portion of our net investments in
operations that use these currencies as their functional currencies. Amounts excluded from effectiveness testing were not material for the remainder of 2015 and prior-year periods.  
 In January 2016, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $97 million within interest and other expense, net related to certain U.S. dollar interest rate swaps that we no longer
designated as accounting cash flow hedges due to a change in financing and hedging plans. In the first quarter of 2016, our plans to issue U.S. dollar debt changed and we issued euro and Swiss franc-denominated notes due to lower overall cost and
our decision to hedge a greater portion of our net investments in operations that use these currencies as their functional currencies.    We record pre-tax and
after-tax (i) gains or losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) into earnings, (ii) gains or losses on ineffectiveness and (iii) gains or losses on amounts excluded from effectiveness testing in:

cost of sales for commodity contracts;    

cost of sales for currency exchange contracts related to forecasted transactions; and    

interest and other expense, net for interest rate contracts and currency exchange contracts related to intercompany loans.    
 Based on current market conditions, we would expect to transfer unrealized losses of $17 million (net of taxes) for commodity cash flow hedges, unrealized gains of $8
million (net of taxes) for currency cash flow hedges and unrealized losses of $3 million (net of taxes) for interest rate cash flow hedges to earnings during the next 12 months.  
  Hedge Coverage:     As of December 31, 2015, we hedged transactions
forecasted to impact cash flows over the following periods:  

commodity transactions for periods not exceeding the next 12 months;    

interest rate transactions for periods not exceeding the next 30 years and 2 months; and    

currency exchange transactions for periods not exceeding the next 12 months.    
      90  

Fair Value Hedges:     Pre-tax
gains / (losses) due to changes in fair value of our interest rate swaps and related hedged long-term debt were recorded in interest and other expense, net:  

Fair value hedge ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from effectiveness testing were not material for all periods presented.  
  Economic Hedges:     Pre-tax gains / (losses) recorded in net earnings for
economic hedges were:       
 
  In connection with the coffee business transactions, we entered into a number of consecutive euro to U.S. dollar currency exchange
forward contracts in 2014 and 2015 to lock in an equivalent expected value in U.S. dollars. The mark-to-market gains and losses on the derivatives were recorded in earnings. We recorded net gains of $436 million for the year ended December 31,
2015 and $628 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 within interest and other expense, net in connection with the forward contracts and the transferring of proceeds to our subsidiaries where coffee net assets and shares were
deconsolidated. The currency hedge and related gains and losses were recorded within interest and other expense, net. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for additional information.  
  Hedges of Net Investments in International Operations:     After-tax gains /
(losses) related to hedges of net investments in international operations in the form of euro, pound sterling and Swiss franc-denominated debt were:       

91  

Note 10. Benefit Plans   
   Pension Plans     Prior to the July 2, 2015 closing of
the coffee business transactions, certain active employees who transitioned to JDE participated in our Non-U.S. pension plans. Following the transactions, benefits began to be provided directly by JDE to participants continuing with JDE. JDE assumed
certain pension plan obligations and received the related plan assets. Through December 31, 2015, we reduced our net benefit plan liabilities by $131 million and the related deferred tax assets by $24 million. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures
and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information. For participants that elected not to transfer into the JDE plans, we retained the plan obligations and related plan assets.  
  Obligations and Funded Status:     The projected benefit obligations, plan
assets and funded status of our pension plans were:       
 
  The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits earned to the measurement date, was $1,463 million at
December 31, 2015 and $1,474 million at December 31, 2014 for the U.S. pension plans. The accumulated benefit obligation for the non-U.S. pension plans was $9,267 million at December 31, 2015 and $10,462 million at December 31,
2014.    For salaried and non-union hourly employees hired after January 1, 2009, we discontinued benefits under our U.S. pension plans and replaced them with an
enhanced Company contribution to our employee defined contribution plan. Effective December 31, 2019, benefit accruals will cease under the U.S. non-union pension plan. For non-union employees participating in that plan on December 31,
2019, we will calculate the pension benefit obligation based on pay and service as of that date and no longer accrue new benefits.  
      92  

The combined U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans resulted in a net pension liability of $2,145 million at December 31,
2015 and $2,882 million at December 31, 2014. We recognized these amounts in our consolidated balance sheets as follows:       
 
  Certain of our U.S. and non-U.S. plans are underfunded and have accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. For
these plans, the projected benefit obligations, accumulated benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets were:       
 
  We used the following  weighted-average  assumptions to determine our benefit obligations
under the pension plans:       
 
  Year-end discount rates for our U.S., Canadian, Eurozone and U.K. plans were developed from a model portfolio of high quality,  fixed-income  debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations. Year-end discount rates for our remaining non-U.S. plans were developed from local bond indices that
match local benefit obligations as closely as possible. Changes in our discount rates were primarily the result of changes in bond yields year-over-year. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets from the plan assets  historical
long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class.    At the end of 2015, we changed the approach
used to measure service and interest costs for pension benefits. For 2015, we measured service and interest costs utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the plan obligations. For 2016, we have
elected to measure service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve to the plans  liability cash flows. We believe the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by
aligning the timing of the plans  liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the yield curve. This change does not affect the measurement of our plan obligations. We have accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate
and, accordingly, have accounted for it on a prospective basis.  
      93  

Components of Net Periodic Pension Cost:   
 Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following:       

(1) 
 For the year ended December 31, 2015, amortization of prior service cost includes $17 million of pension curtailment losses related to employees who transitioned to JDE upon the contribution of our global coffee
business. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information.    

(2) 
 Settlement losses include $9 million for year ended December 31, 2015 and $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 of pension settlement losses for employees who elected lump-sum payments in connection
with our 2014-2018 Restructuring Program. Retired employees who elected lump-sum payments resulted in net settlement losses in 2015 of $10 million for our U.S. plans and $2 million for our non-U.S. plans. Employees who elected lump-sum
payments in connection with our 2012-2014 Restructuring Program and cost saving initiatives and retired employees who elected lump-sum payments resulted in net settlement losses for our U.S. plans of $28 million in 2014 and $1 million in 2013.
Non-U.S. plant closures and early retirement benefits resulted in curtailment and settlement losses of $2 million in 2013. In addition, we incurred special termination benefit costs of $2 million in 2014 and $1 million in 2013 in the non-U.S. plans
related to the 2012-2014 Restructuring Program. See Note 6,  Restructuring Programs , for more information. We recorded an additional $90 million of pension settlement losses related to the coffee business transactions within the gain on the
coffee business transactions. Refer to Note 2 , Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information.      For
the U.S. plans, we determine the expected return on plan assets component of net periodic benefit cost using a calculated market return value that recognizes the cost over a four year period. For our non-U.S. plans, we utilize a similar approach
with varying cost recognition periods for some plans, and with others, we determine the expected return on plan assets based on asset fair values as of the measurement date.  
 As of December 31, 2015, for the combined U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, we expected to amortize from accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) into
net periodic pension cost during 2016:  

an estimated $166 million of net loss from experience differences; and    

$1 million of estimated prior service credit.      We used the following
 weighted-average  assumptions to determine our net periodic pension cost:       

94  

Plan Assets:     The fair value of
pension plan assets was determined using the following fair value measurements:       

We excluded plan assets of $66 million at December 31, 2015 and $74 million at December 31, 2014 from the above tables
related to certain insurance contracts as they are reported at contract value, in accordance with authoritative guidance.  
      95  

Fair value measurements:   

Level 1   includes primarily U.S and non-U.S. equity securities and government bonds valued using quoted prices in active markets.   

Level 2   includes primarily pooled funds, including assets in real estate pooled funds, valued using net asset values of participation units held in common collective trusts, as reported by the managers of the
trusts and as supported by the unit prices of actual purchase and sale transactions. Level 2 plan assets also include corporate bonds and other fixed-income securities, valued using independent observable market inputs, such as matrix pricing, yield
curves and indices.    

Level 3   includes investments valued using unobservable inputs that reflect the plans  assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the assets, based on the best information available.

Fair value estimates for pooled funds are calculated by the investment advisor when reliable quotations or pricing services are not readily available for certain underlying securities. The estimated value is based on
either cost, or last sale price for most of the securities valued in this fashion.    

Fair value estimates for private equity investments are calculated by the general partners using the market approach to estimate the fair value of private investments. The market approach utilizes prices and other
relevant information generated by market transactions, type of security, degree of liquidity, restrictions on the disposition, latest round of financing data, company financial statements, relevant valuation multiples and discounted cash flow
analyses.    

Fair value estimates for real estate investments are calculated by the investment managers using the present value of future cash flows expected to be received from the investments, based on valuation methodologies such
as appraisals, local market conditions, and current and projected operating performance.    

Fair value estimates for investments in hedge fund-of-funds are calculated by the investment managers using the net asset value per share of the investment as reported by the money managers of the underlying funds.

Fair value estimates for certain fixed-income securities such as insurance contracts are calculated based on the future stream of benefit payments discounted using prevailing interest rates based on the valuation date.
     Changes in our Level 3 plan assets, which are recorded in other comprehensive earnings / (losses), included:  

96  

The decreases in Level 3 pension plan investments during 2015 were primarily due to net settlements in hedge funds and the
effects of currency. The increases in Level 3 pension plan investments during 2014 were primarily due to unrealized net gains across most of the Level 3 asset categories and net transfers into pooled funds-fixed income securities offset by the
effects of currency.    The percentage of fair value of pension plan assets was:  

For our U.S. plans, our investment strategy is to reduce the risk of underfunded plans in part through appropriate asset
allocation within our plan assets. We attempt to maintain our target asset allocation by rebalancing between asset classes as we make contributions and monthly benefit payments. Due to the nature and timing of our expected pension liabilities, in
the first quarter of 2015, we strategically reduced the risk level of the investment portfolio by lowering our target allocation for equity securities (including investments in real estate) to 35% and increasing the fixed-income allocation target to
65%. The strategy involves using indexed U.S. equity and international equity securities and actively managed U.S. investment grade fixed-income securities (which constitute 95% or more of fixed-income securities) with smaller allocations to high
yield fixed-income securities.    For our non-U.S. plans, the investment strategy is subject to local regulations and the asset / liability profiles of the plans in
each individual country. In aggregate, the asset allocation targets of our non-U.S. plans are broadly characterized as a mix of approximately 37% equity securities (including investments in real estate), approximately 50% fixed-income securities and
approximately 13% other alternative securities. Our investment strategy for our largest non-U.S. plan, which comprises 51% of our non-U.S. pension assets, is designed to balance risk and return by diversifying across a wide range of return-seeking
and liability matching assets, invested in a range of both active and passive mandates. We target an allocation of approximately 15% in equity securities, 19% credit, 12% private markets, 17% other diversifying assets, and 37% liability matching
assets. The strategy uses indexed global developed equities, actively managed global investment grade and alternative credit, global private equity and real estate, other diversifying assets including hedge funds, and other liability matching assets
including a buy-in annuity policy.     Employer Contributions:     In 2015, we
contributed $225 million to our U.S. pension plans and $302 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. In addition, employees contributed $16 million to our non-U.S. plans. We make contributions to our U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans primarily to the
extent that they are tax deductible and do not generate an excise tax liability.    In 2016, we estimate that our pension contributions will be $170 million to our
U.S. plans and $279 million to our non-U.S. plans based on current tax laws. Of the total 2016 pension contributions, $150 million is expected to be voluntary. Our actual contributions may be different due to many factors, including changes in tax
and other benefit laws, significant differences between expected and actual pension asset performance or interest rates, or other factors.     Future Benefit
Payments:     The estimated future benefit payments from our pension plans at December 31, 2015 were (in millions):  

97  

Multiemployer Pension Plans:     We
made contributions to multiemployer pension plans of $31 million in 2015, $32 million in 2014 and $32 million in 2013. These plans provide pension benefits to retirees under certain collective bargaining agreements. The following is the only
individually significant multiemployer plan we participate in as of December 31, 2015:       

Expiration Date  

Pension  
   
  FIP / RP  

of Collective-  

EIN / Pension  

Protection Act  
   
  Status Pending /  

Surcharge  
   
  Bargaining  

Pension Fund   
   
  Plan Number  

Zone Status  
   
  Implemented  

Imposed  
   
  Agreements  

Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and
Grain Miller International Pension Fund                     

526118572 

Red 

Implemented 

Yes 

2/29/2016 

Our contributions exceeded 5% of total contributions to the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International
Pension Fund (the  Fund ) for fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013. Our contributions to the Fund were $27 million in 2015, $25 million in 2014 and $26 million in 2013. Our contribution to the Fund is based on our contribution rates under our
collective bargaining agreements, the number of our eligible employees and Fund surcharges. Our collective bargaining agreements with the Fund, under which we are obligated to make contributions to the Fund, expire during 2016. These current
collective bargaining agreements obligate us to contribute approximately $30 million to the Pension Fund on an annual basis, including 2016. The Fund s actuarial valuation has been completed and the zone status was changed to  Red  in
2012. As a result of this certification, we are being charged a 10% surcharge on our contribution rates. Our expected future contributions include the surcharge. The Fund adopted a rehabilitation plan on November 7, 2012 that requires
contribution increases and reduction to benefit provisions.    Our contributions to other multiemployer pension plans that were not individually significant were $4
million in 2015, $7 million in 2014 and $6 million in 2013.     Other Costs:   
 We sponsor and contribute to employee defined contribution plans. These plans cover eligible salaried, non-union and union employees. Our contributions and costs are
determined by the matching of employee contributions, as defined by the plans. Amounts charged to expense in continuing operations for defined contribution plans totaled $45 million in 2015, $46 million in 2014 and $66 million in 2013.  
  Postretirement Benefit Plans      Obligations:   
 Our postretirement health care plans are not funded. The changes in and the amount of the accrued benefit obligation were:  

The current portion of our accrued postretirement benefit obligation of $11 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was
included in other accrued liabilities.  
      98  

We used the following  weighted-average  assumptions to determine our postretirement
benefit obligations:       
 
  Year-end discount rates for our U.S., Canadian and U.K. plans were developed from a model portfolio of high quality,  fixed-income  debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations. Year-end discount rates for our remaining non-U.S. plans were developed from local bond indices that
match local benefit obligations as closely as possible. Changes in our discount rates were primarily the result of changes in bond yields year-over-year. Our expected health care cost trend rate is based on historical costs.  
 At the end 2015, we changed the approach used to measure service and interest costs for other postretirement benefits. For 2015, we measured service and interest costs
utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the plan obligations. For 2016, we elected to measure service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve to the
plans  liability cash flows. We believe the new approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by aligning the timing of the plans  liability cash flows to the corresponding spot rates on the yield curve. This
change does not affect the measurement of our plan obligations. We have accounted for this change as a change in accounting estimate and, accordingly, have accounted for it on a prospective basis.  
 Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant impact on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A
 one-percentage-point  change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:       

As of December 31, 2015  

One-Percentage-Point  

Increase  

Decrease  

(in millions)  

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation  

$ 
 88 

$ 
 (69 
 )   
 
   Effect on annual service and interest cost  

7 

(6 
 )   
 
   Components of Net Periodic Postretirement Health Care Costs:   
 Net periodic postretirement health care costs consisted of the following:       
 
  As of December 31, 2015, we expected to amortize from accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) into pre-tax net
periodic postretirement health care costs during 2016:  

an estimated $9 million of net loss from experience differences, and    

an estimated $7 million of prior service credit.    
      99  

We used the following  weighted-average  assumptions to determine our net periodic
postretirement health care cost:       
 
   Future Benefit Payments:     Our
estimated future benefit payments for our postretirement health care plans at December 31, 2015 were (in millions):       
 
   Other Costs:     We made contributions to
multiemployer medical plans totaling $20 million in 2015, $18 million in 2014 and $18 million in 2013. These plans provide medical benefits to active employees and retirees under certain collective bargaining agreements.  
  Postemployment Benefit Plans      Obligations:   
 Our postemployment plans are primarily not funded. The changes in and the amount of the accrued benefit obligation at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were:  

The accrued benefit obligation was determined using a weighted-average discount rate of 6.2% in 2015 and 5.6% in 2014, an assumed
weighted-average ultimate annual turnover rate of 0.3% in 2015 and 2014, assumed compensation cost increases of 4.0% in 2015 and 2014 and assumed benefits as defined in the respective plans.  
 Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.  
  Components of Net Periodic Postemployment Costs:     Net periodic postemployment
costs consisted of the following:       
 
  As of December 31, 2015, the estimated net gain for the postemployment benefit plans that we expected to amortize from
accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) into net periodic postemployment costs during 2016 was insignificant.  
      100  

Note 11. Stock Plans   
  On May 21, 2014, our shareholders approved the Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ). Under the
amended plan, we make grants to non-employee directors under the 2005 Plan, and we no longer make any grants under the Amended and Restated 2006 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  2006 Directors Plan ). We also
increased the number of shares available for issuance under the 2005 Plan by 75.7 million, which includes the shares remaining available for issuance under the 2006 Directors Plan as of March 14, 2014. Under the 2005 Plan, we are
authorized to issue a maximum of 243.7 million shares of our Common Stock. We may not make any grants under the 2005 Plan after May 21, 2024. As of December 31, 2015, there were 81.8 million shares available to be granted under
the 2005 Plan.    In connection with the Spin-Off and divestiture of Kraft Foods Group, under the provisions of our existing plans, employee stock option and
restricted stock and deferred stock unit grants were adjusted to preserve the fair value of the awards immediately before and after the Spin-Off. As such, we did not record any incremental compensation expense related to the conversion of the
awards. In connection with the stock awards held by our respective employees at the time of the Spin-Off, we collected a $55 million cash net settlement for the awards from Kraft Foods Group in March 2013.  
  Stock Options:     Stock options (including stock appreciation rights) are
granted at an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying stock on the grant date, generally become exercisable in three annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date and have a maximum term of ten years.
   We account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a  Black-Scholes  methodology to
measure stock option expense at the date of grant. The fair value of the stock options at the date of grant is amortized to expense over the vesting period. We recorded compensation expense related to stock options held by our employees of $50
million in 2015, $47 million in 2014 and $39 million in 2013 in our results from continuing operations. The deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was $13 million in 2015, $12 million in 2014 and $11 million in 2013. The
unamortized compensation expense related to our employee stock options was $62 million at December 31, 2015 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1 year.  
 Our weighted-average Black-Scholes fair value assumptions were:       
 
  The risk-free interest rate represents the constant maturity U.S. government treasuries rate with a remaining term equal to the
expected life of the options. The expected life is the period over which our employees are expected to hold their options. Volatility reflects historical movements in our stock price for a period commensurate with the expected life of the options.
The dividend yield reflects the dividend yield in place at the time of the historical grants.  
      101  

Stock option activity is reflected below:  

Restricted Stock, Deferred Stock Units and Performance Share Units:   
 We may grant shares of restricted stock or deferred stock units to eligible employees, giving them, in most instances, all of the rights of shareholders, except that
they may not sell, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber the shares and our deferred stock units do not have voting rights until vested. Shares of restricted stock and deferred stock units are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions
are not met. Restricted stock and deferred stock units generally vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. Beginning in 2016, we will only grant deferred stock units and no longer grant restricted stock.  
 Performance share units granted under our 2005 Plan vest based on varying performance, market and service conditions. The unvested performance share units have no
voting rights and do not pay dividends. Dividend equivalents accumulated over the vesting period are paid only after the performance share units vest.    The fair
value of the restricted stock, deferred stock units and performance share units at the date of grant is amortized to earnings over the restriction period. We recorded compensation expense related to restricted stock, deferred stock units and
performance share units of $86 million in 2015, $94 million in 2014 and $94 million in 2013 in our results from continuing operations. The deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was $24 million in 2015, $26 million in
2014 and $28 million in 2013. The unamortized compensation expense related to our restricted stock, deferred stock units and performance share units was $138 million at December 31, 2015 and is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 2 years.  
      102  

Our restricted stock, deferred stock unit and performance share unit activity is reflected below:  

(1) 
 Includes performance share units, restricted stock and deferred stock units.    
      103  

Note 12. Capital Stock   
  Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize 5.0 billion shares of Class A common stock ( Common Stock ) and
500 million shares of preferred stock. There were no preferred shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Shares of Common Stock issued, in treasury and outstanding were:  

Stock plan awards to employees and non-employee directors are issued from treasury shares. At December 31, 2015,
146 million shares of Common Stock held in treasury were reserved for stock options and other stock awards.     Share Repurchase Program:   
 During 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of $7.7 billion of our Common Stock through December 31, 2016. On July 29, 2015, our Finance
Committee, with authorization delegated from our Board of Directors, approved an increase of $6.0 billion in the share repurchase program, raising the authorization to $13.7 billion of Common Stock repurchases, and extended the program through
December 31, 2018. Repurchases under the program are determined by management and are wholly discretionary. During 2015, we repurchased 91.9 million shares of Common Stock at an average cost of $39.43 per share, or an aggregate cost of
$3.6 billion, all of which was paid during 2015. All share repurchases were funded through available cash and commercial paper issuances. During 2014, we repurchased 51.9 million shares of Common Stock at an average cost of $36.43 per share, or
an aggregate cost of $1.9 billion. As of December 31, 2015, we have $5.4 billion in remaining share repurchase capacity.    In December 2013, we initiated an
accelerated share repurchase ( ASR ) program. On December 3, 2013, we paid $1.7 billion and received an initial delivery of 44.8 million shares of Common Stock valued at $1.5 billion. We increased treasury stock by $1.5 billion,
and the remaining $0.2 billion was recorded against additional paid in capital. In May 2014, the ASR program concluded and we received an additional 5.1 million shares, valued at $0.2 billion, for a total of 49.9 million shares with an
average repurchase price of $34.10 per share over the life of the ASR program. The final settlement was based on the volume-weighted average price of our Common Stock during the purchase period less a fixed per share discount. Upon conclusion of the
ASR program and receipt of the remaining repurchased shares, the $0.2 billion recorded in additional paid in capital was reclassified to treasury stock.  
      104  

Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies   
   Legal Proceedings:     We routinely are involved in legal
proceedings, claims and governmental inspections or investigations ( Legal Matters ) arising in the ordinary course of our business.    A compliant and
ethical corporate culture, which includes adhering to laws and industry regulations in all jurisdictions in which we do business, is integral to our success. Accordingly, after we acquired Cadbury in February 2010, we began reviewing and adjusting,
as needed, Cadbury s operations in light of applicable standards as well as our policies and practices. We initially focused on such high priority areas as food safety, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ) and antitrust. Based
upon Cadbury s pre-acquisition policies and compliance programs and our post-acquisition reviews, our preliminary findings indicated that Cadbury s overall state of compliance was sound. Nonetheless, through our reviews, we determined that
in certain jurisdictions, including India, there appeared to be facts and circumstances warranting further investigation. We are continuing our investigations in certain jurisdictions, including in India, and we continue to cooperate with
governmental authorities.    As we previously disclosed, on February 1, 2011, we received a subpoena from the SEC in connection with an investigation under the
FCPA, primarily related to a facility in India that we acquired in the Cadbury acquisition. The subpoena primarily requests information regarding dealings with Indian governmental agencies and officials to obtain approvals related to the operation
of that facility. We are continuing to cooperate with the U.S. and Indian governments in their investigations of these matters, including through ongoing meetings with the U.S. government to discuss potential conclusion of the U.S. government
investigation. On February 11, 2016, we received a  Wells  notice from the SEC indicating that the staff has made a preliminary determination to recommend that the SEC file an enforcement action against us for violations of the books
and records and internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act in connection with the investigation. We intend to make a submission to the staff of the SEC in response to the notice.  
 In February 2013 and March 2014, Cadbury India Limited (now known as Mondelez India Foods Private Limited), a subsidiary of Mondel z International, and other
parties received show cause notices from the Indian Central Excise Authority (the  Excise Authority ) calling upon the parties to demonstrate why the Excise Authority should not collect a total of 3.7 billion Indian rupees (approximately
$57 million U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2015) of unpaid excise tax and an equivalent amount of penalties, as well as interest, related to production at the same Indian facility. We contested these demands for unpaid excise taxes, penalties
and interest. On March 27, 2015, after several hearings, the Commissioner of the Excise Authority issued an order denying the excise exemption that we claimed for the Indian facility and confirming the Excise Authority s demands for total
taxes and penalties in the amount of 5.8 billion Indian rupees (approximately $88 million U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2015). We have appealed this order. In addition, the Excise Authority issued additional show cause notices on
February 6, 2015 and December 8, 2015 on the same issue but covering the periods January to October 2014 and November 2014 to September 2015, respectively. These notices added a total of 2.4 billion Indian rupees (approximately $36 million
U.S. dollars as of December 31, 2015) of unpaid excise taxes as well as penalties to be determined up to an amount equivalent to that claimed by the Excise Authority and interest. We believe that the decision to claim the excise tax benefit is
valid and we are continuing to contest the show cause notices through the administrative and judicial process.    In April 2013, the staff of the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission ( CFTC ) advised us and Kraft Foods Group that it was investigating activities related to the trading of December 2011 wheat futures contracts that occurred prior to the Spin-Off of Kraft Foods Group. We
cooperated with the staff in its investigation. On April 1, 2015, the CFTC filed a complaint against Kraft Foods Group and Mondel z Global LLC ( Mondel z Global ) in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, Eastern Division (the  CFTC action ). The complaint alleges that Kraft Foods Group and Mondel z Global (1) manipulated or attempted to manipulate the wheat markets during the fall of 2011; (2) violated position
limit levels for wheat futures and (3) engaged in non-competitive trades by trading both sides of exchange-for-physical Chicago Board of Trade wheat contracts. The CFTC seeks civil monetary penalties of either triple the monetary gain for each
violation of the Commodity Exchange Act (the  Act ) or $1 million for each violation of Section 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3) or 9(a)(2) of the Act and $140,000 for each additional violation of the Act, plus post-judgment interest; an order of
permanent injunction prohibiting Kraft Foods Group and Mondel z Global from violating specified provisions of the Act; disgorgement of profits; and costs and fees. In December 2015, the court denied Mondel z Global and Kraft Foods
Group s motion to dismiss the CFTC s claims of market manipulation and attempted manipulation, and the parties are now in discovery. Additionally, several class action complaints were filed against Kraft Foods Group and Mondel z
Global in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by investors in wheat futures and options on behalf of themselves and others similarly situated. The complaints make similar allegations as those made in the CFTC action and
seek class action certification; an unspecified amount for damages, interest and unjust enrichment; costs and fees; and injunctive, declaratory, and other unspecified relief. In June 2015, these suits were consolidated in the Northern District of
Illinois. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these matters; however, based on our Separation and Distribution Agreement with Kraft Foods Group dated as of September 27, 2012, we expect to predominantly bear any monetary penalties or
other payments in connection with the CFTC action.  
      105  

While we cannot predict with certainty the results of any Legal Matters in which we are currently involved, we do not
expect that the ultimate costs to resolve any of these Legal Matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material effect on our financial results.  
  Third-Party Guarantees:     We enter into third-party guarantees primarily to
cover the long-term obligations of our vendors. As part of these transactions, we guarantee that third parties will make contractual payments or achieve performance measures. At December 31, 2015, we had no material third-party guarantees
recorded on our consolidated balance sheet.    As part of our 2010 Cadbury acquisition, we became the responsible party for tax matters under the Cadbury Schweppes
Plc and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. ( DPSG ) Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement dated May 1, 2008 ( Tax Indemnity ) for certain 2007 and 2008 transactions relating to the demerger of Cadbury s Americas Beverage
business. A U.S. federal tax audit of Cadbury for the 2006-2008 tax years was concluded with the IRS in August 2013. As a result, we recorded a favorable impact of $336 million in selling, general and administrative expenses and $49 million in
interest and other expense, net for a total pre-tax impact of $385 million ($363 million net of tax) in the three months ended September 30, 2013 due to the reversal of the accrued liability in excess of the amount we paid to DPSG under the Tax
Indemnity in the third quarter of 2013.     Leases:     Rental expenses
recorded in continuing operations were $331 million in 2015, $399 million in 2014 and $386 million in 2013. As of December 31, 2015, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at year-end were (in millions):  

106  

Note 14. Reclassifications from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income   
  The components of accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) attributable to Mondel z International were:  

(1) 
 The consolidated statement of other comprehensive earnings includes currency translation adjustment attributable to noncontrolling interests of $(26) million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and $(33) million
for the year ended December 31, 2014.    

(2) 
 The 2015 translation adjustment of $(2,759) million on the consolidated statement of other comprehensive earnings includes translation adjustments related to pensions of $146 million, derivatives of
$503 million, noncontrolling interests of $(26) million and currency impacts of $(3,382) million related to translating our international operations.    
      107  

Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive earnings / (losses) and their locations in the consolidated
financial statements were as follows:       

Location of   

Gain / (Loss)   

For the Years Ended December 31,  

Recognized   

2015  

2014  

2013  

in Net Earnings   

(in millions)  

Pension and other benefits:  

Reclassification of losses / (gains) into net earnings:  

Amortization of experience losses and prior service costs  (1)   
    
 $ 
 207 

$ 
 132 

$ 
 193 

Settlement losses  (1)  (2)   

111 

42 

4 

Venezuela deconsolidation  

2  

Loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela  
 
   Tax impact  

(69  
  )   

(56  
  )   

(50  
  )   
    
 Provision for   income taxes   
 
   Derivatives accounted for as hedges:  

Reclassification of losses / (gains) into net earnings:  

Currency exchange contracts - forecasted transactions  

(90  
  )   

(27  
  )   

28  

Cost of sales  
 
   Commodity contracts  

64  

(21  
  )   

38  

Cost of sales  
 
   Interest rate contracts  

47  

3  

6  

Interest and other expense, net  
 
   Tax impact  

(21  
  )   

6  

(19  
  )   
    
 Provision for   income taxes   
 
   Currency translation:  

Reclassification to earnings related to Venezuela deconsolidation  

99  

Loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela  

Total reclassifications into net earnings, net of tax  
    
 $ 
 350 

$ 
 79 

$ 
 200 

(1) 
 These items are included in the components of net periodic benefit costs disclosed in Note 10,  Benefit Plans .    

(2) 
 Settlement losses include the transfer of coffee business-related pension obligations in the amount of $90 million in 2015. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for
additional information.    
      108  

Note 15. Income Taxes   
  Earnings / (losses) from continuing operations before income taxes and the provision for income taxes consisted of the following:  

See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions , for information on taxes presented as part of the Kraft Foods Group discontinued
operation and related to the resolution of the Starbucks arbitration.    We recorded out-of-period adjustments of $14 million net expense in 2015 and $31 million net
expense in 2014 that had an immaterial impact on the annual provision for income taxes. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a tax benefit of $43 million associated with the lapse of a statute of limitations that related to
the third quarter of 2014. The out-of-period adjustments were not material to the consolidated financial statements for any prior period.  
      109  

The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons:

Our 2015 effective tax rate of 7.5% was favorably impacted by the one-time third quarter sale of our coffee business that resulted
in a pre-tax gain of $6,809 million and $184 million of related tax expense, as well as $27 million of tax costs incurred to remit proceeds up from lower-tier foreign subsidiaries to allow cash to be redeployed within our retained foreign
operations. The benefit of the third quarter transaction was partially offset by the tax costs associated with the sale of our interest in AGF in the first half of the year and the impact of deconsolidating our Venezuelan operations on
December 31, 2015. Excluding the impacts of these transactions, our effective tax rate would have been 17.8%, reflecting favorable impacts from the mix of pre-tax income in various non-U.S. tax jurisdictions and net tax benefits from $119
million of discrete one-time events. The remaining discrete one-time events primarily related to favorable tax audit settlements and expirations of statutes of limitations in several jurisdictions and the net reduction of U.K. deferred tax
liabilities resulting from tax legislation enacted during 2015 that reduced the U.K. corporate income tax rate.    Our 2014 effective tax rate of 13.8% was favorably
impacted by the mix of pre-tax income in various non-U.S. tax jurisdictions and net tax benefits from $206 million of discrete one-time events. The discrete net tax benefits primarily related to favorable tax audit settlements and expirations of
statues of limitations in several jurisdictions.    Our 2013 effective tax rate of 2.5% was favorably impacted by the mix of pre-tax income in various non-U.S. tax
jurisdictions, net tax benefits from discrete one-time events and the non-taxable portion of the Cadbury acquisition related indemnification resolution, partially offset by an unfavorable tax law change. The $299 million of discrete one-time events
primarily related to favorable tax audit settlements and expirations of statutes of limitations in several jurisdictions and the net reduction of U.K. deferred tax liabilities resulting from tax legislation enacted during 2013 that reduced the U.K.
corporate income tax rate.  
      110  

The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the
following:       
 
  At December 31, 2015, the company has pre-tax loss carryforwards of $3,393 million, of which $1,160 million will expire at
various dates between 2016 and 2029 and the remaining $2,233 million can be carried forward indefinitely.    Our significant valuation allowances reside in Mexico and
Ireland.    At December 31, 2015, neither applicable U.S. federal income taxes nor foreign withholding taxes have been provided on approximately $19.2 billion of
accumulated earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that are expected to be indefinitely reinvested. It is impractical for us to determine the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities on these indefinitely reinvested earnings. Future tax law
changes or changes in the needs of our non-U.S. subsidiaries could require us to recognize deferred tax liabilities on a portion, or all, of our accumulated earnings that were previously expected to be indefinitely reinvested.  
 The changes in our unrecognized tax benefits were:       

111  

As of January 1, 2015, our unrecognized tax benefits were $852 million. If we had recognized all of these benefits,
the net impact on our income tax provision would have been $744 million. Our unrecognized tax benefits were $756 million at December 31, 2015, and if we had recognized all of these benefits, the net impact on our income tax provision would have
been $652 million. Within the next 12 months, our unrecognized tax benefits could increase by approximately $80 million due to unfavorable audit developments or decrease by approximately $260 million due to audit settlements and the expiration of
statutes of limitations in various jurisdictions. We include accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in our tax provision. We had accrued interest and penalties of $184 million as of January 1, 2015 and $185 million as
of December 31, 2015. Our 2015 provision for income taxes included $32 million for interest and penalties.    Our income tax filings are regularly examined by
federal, state and non-U.S. tax authorities. Our 2010-2012 U.S. federal income tax filings are currently under examination by the IRS. U.S. state and non-U.S. jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from three to five years;
however, these statutes are often extended by mutual agreement with the tax authorities. Years still open to examination by non-U.S. tax authorities in major jurisdictions include (earliest open tax year in parentheses): Brazil (2010), France
(2010), Germany (2005), India (2005), Italy (2010) and the United Kingdom (2013).  
   Note 16. Earnings Per Share   
  Basic and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) from continuing and discontinued operations were calculated using the following:  

(1) 
 Earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes a pre-tax charge of $778 million related to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies   Currency Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting: Venezuela , for additional information.      We exclude
antidilutive Mondel z International stock options from our calculation of weighted-average shares for diluted EPS. We excluded 5.1 million antidilutive stock options for the year ended December 31, 2015, 8.6 million antidilutive
stock options for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 7.0 million antidilutive stock options for the year ended December 31, 2013.  
      112  

Note 17. Segment Reporting   
  We manufacture and market primarily snack food products, including biscuits (cookies, crackers and salted snacks), chocolate, gum   candy
and various cheese   grocery products, as well as powdered beverage products. We manage our global business and report operating results through geographic units.  
 Our operations and management structure are organized into five reportable operating segments:  

Latin America    

Asia Pacific    

EEMEA    

Europe    

North America      We manage our operations by region to leverage regional operating scale, manage different and changing
business environments more effectively and pursue growth opportunities as they arise in our key markets. Our regional management teams have responsibility for the business, product categories and financial results in the regions.  
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business.
Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with the accounting for our new coffee equity method investment in JDE, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of
segment operating income. For the six months ended December 31, 2015, after-tax equity method investment net earnings were less than $1 million on a combined basis. Earnings from equity method investments through July 2, 2015 recorded
within segment operating income were $49 million in Asia Pacific, $3 million in EEMEA and $4 million in North America. For the year ended December 31, 2014 these earnings were $98 million in Asia Pacific, $6 million in EEMEA and $9 million in
North America. For the year ended December 31, 2013 these earnings were $99 million in Asia Pacific, $7 million in EEMEA and $1 million in North America. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Principles of
Consolidation , for additional information.    Also in 2015, we began to report stock-based compensation for our corporate employees, which was previously reported
within our North America region, within general corporate expenses. We reclassified $32 million of corporate stock-based compensation expense out of the North America segment in 2015.  
 We use segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. We believe it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze
segment performance and trends. Segment operating income excludes unrealized gains and losses on hedging activities (which are a component of cost of sales), general corporate expenses (which are a component of selling, general and administrative
expenses), amortization of intangibles, the benefit from the Cadbury acquisition-related indemnification resolution (which is a component of selling, general and administrative expenses), gains and losses on divestitures or acquisitions, gain on the
coffee business transactions, loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela and acquisition-related costs (which are a component of selling, general and administrative expenses) in all periods presented. We exclude these items from segment operating income
in order to provide better transparency of our segment operating results. Furthermore, we centrally manage interest and other expense, net. Accordingly, we do not present these items by segment because they are excluded from the segment
profitability measure that management reviews.    Our segment net revenues and earnings were:  

(1) 
 On July 2, 2015, we contributed our global coffee businesses primarily from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segments. The impact of deconsolidating our coffee businesses on July 2, 2015 was $1,699 million
in Europe, $413 million in EEMEA, $32 million in Asia Pacific and $5 million in Latin America on a year-over-year basis. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information.
   
      113  

No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues from continuing operations in 2015. Our five largest customers
accounted for 17.0% and our ten largest customers accounted for 24.0% of net revenues from continuing operations in 2015.    Items impacting our segment operating
results are discussed in Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  including the Venezuela deconsolidation and currency devaluations, Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , Note
6,  Restructuring Programs  and Note 7,  Integration Program and Cost Saving Initiatives . Also see Note 8,  Debt and Borrowing Arrangements , and Note 9,  Financial Instruments,  for more information on our interest and other
expense, net for each period.    Total assets, depreciation expense and capital expenditures by segment were:  

(1) 
 Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, earnings from equity method investees were reported outside of segment operating income, as discussed above in this Note and Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
  Principles of Consolidation,  and outside of segment assets. We reclassified equity method investments above as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 on a basis consistent with the 2015 presentation.    

(2) 
 The change in total assets as of December 31, 2015 reflects a decrease of $1.1 billion related to the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Currency
Translation and Highly Inflationary Accounting: Venezuela , for more information.    

(3) 
 On July 2, 2015, we deconsolidated our global coffee businesses, primarily from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segments. See Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for
more information.    
      114  

(4) 
 Unallocated assets consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes, centrally held property, plant and equipment, prepaid pension assets and derivative financial instrument balances. We had debt
issuance costs related to recognized debt liabilities of $46 million as of December 31, 2015, $44 million as of December 31, 2014 and $51 million as of December 31, 2013, which have been reclassified from long-term other assets to a
deduction from the related debt obligations on the consolidated balance sheets.         

Geographic data for net revenues and long-lived assets, excluding deferred tax, goodwill, intangible assets and equity method
investments were:       

(1) 
 Long-lived assets no longer includes debt issuance costs related to recognized debt liabilities of $46 million as of December 31, 2015, $44 million as of December 31, 2014 and $51 million as of
December 31, 2013, which have been reclassified from long-term other assets to a deduction from the related debt obligations on the consolidated balance sheets.    
 No individual country within Other exceeded 10% of our net revenues or long-lived assets for all periods presented.  
      115  

Net revenues by product category were:  

(1) 
 On July 2, 2015, we contributed our global coffee businesses primarily from our Europe, EEMEA and Asia Pacific segment beverage categories. The decrease in beverages net revenues in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily
reflects the coffee business transactions and unfavorable currency on our remaining beverage business. The impact of deconsolidating our coffee businesses on July 2, 2015 was $1,699 million in Europe, $413 million in EEMEA, $32 million in Asia
Pacific and $5 million in Latin America on a year-over-year basis. Refer to Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions   Coffee Business Transactions , for more information.    

(2) 
 During 2014, we realigned some of our products across product categories and as such, we reclassified the product category net revenues on a basis consistent with the 2015 presentation.    
      116  

Note 18. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   
  Our summarized operating results by quarter are detailed below.      

117  

(1) 
 Historically, we have recorded income from equity method investments within our operating income as these investments operated as extensions of our base business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, to align with
the accounting for JDE earnings, we began to record the earnings from our equity method investments in after-tax equity method investment earnings outside of operating income. As the after-tax equity method investment net earnings for the six months
ended December 31, 2015 was less than $1 million, this line item is not shown on our consolidated statement of earnings. Pre-tax earnings from equity method investments recorded within segment operating income were $56 million for the six
months ended July 2, 2015. See Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   Principles of Consolidation , for additional information.    

(2) 
 See the following table for significant items that affected the comparability of earnings each quarter.    

(3) 
 In the fourth quarter of 2015, we recorded a net loss, primarily due to the loss on deconsolidation of Venezuela and coffee business transaction final sales price adjustment. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, due to the net
loss in the quarter, diluted EPS was equal to basic EPS.    

(4) 
 In the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a tax benefit of $43 million associated with the lapse of a statute of limitations that related to the third quarter of 2014.    
 Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not equal the total for the
year.    During 2015 and 2014, we recorded the following pre-tax (charges) / gains in earnings from continuing operations:  

Items impacting our operating results are discussed in Note 1,  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  including the
Venezuela deconsolidation and currency devaluations, Note 2,  Divestitures and Acquisitions,  including the coffee business transactions, Note 5,  Goodwill and Intangible Assets , Note 6,  Restructuring Program, and  Note 8,  Debt
and Borrowing Arrangements .  

      118  

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.     None.  
    Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures.   
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures     We have established
disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in
the rules and forms of the SEC, and such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. Management, together with our CEO and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2015. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2015.     Remediation of Material Weakness   
 As of December 31, 2015, management assessed and concluded that the previously reported material weakness related to accounting for income taxes has been
remediated as of December 31, 2015.    As part of the remediation plan, management implemented new policies and procedures pertaining to accounting for income
taxes, including:      

revising and formalizing numerous income tax accounting review processes,    

redesigning and implementing a new, more robust internal control set related to income tax accounting,    

defining and clearly communicating roles and responsibilities for income tax accounting to local and regional personnel,    

implementing industry-standard technology tools utilized in the accounting for income taxes,    

conducting extensive training on the accounting and control processes involving income tax accounting, and    

hiring additional personnel with specific income tax accounting expertise.      We and our Board of Directors are committed
to maintaining a strong internal control environment, and we believe that these remediation efforts represent significant improvements in our controls. We monitored our processes throughout the remediation period and have concluded that they are
operating effectively and are well controlled and sustainable. We will continue to focus on maintaining the system of internal controls that was developed and implemented over the last two years, and we will make enhancements when and where
necessary.     Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
 Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the
Exchange Act. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our CEO and CFO, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the Company s Board of Directors, management and other
personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our internal control over
financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:      

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of assets;    

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;    

provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with management and director authorization; and    

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
   
      119  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
   Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. Management based this assessment on criteria
for effective internal control over financial reporting described in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ).  
 Based on this assessment, management concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2015, based on
the criteria in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework  issued by the COSO.    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has
audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, as stated in their report that appears under Item 8.  
 February 19, 2016     Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
    Management, together with our CEO and CFO, evaluated the changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31,
2015. As outlined above, we remediated the previously reported material weakness related to our accounting for income taxes by adding controls in prior periods. We concluded our testing of those controls in the fourth quarter, supporting our
remediation determination.    During the year ended December 31, 2015, we worked with outsourced partners to further simplify and standardize processes and focus
on scalable, transactional processes across all regions. Specifically during the fourth quarter of 2015, we began to transition some of our transactional processing and financial reporting for a number of countries in our Asia Pacific, EEMEA and
Latin America regions, as well as some of our Asia Pacific region order-to-cash transactional processing to two outsourced partners. We also transitioned some of our procurement administration functions for our North America and Latin America
regions to one of our outsourced partners. We also transitioned certain financial system reconciliations for our EEMEA and Asia Pacific regions to another outsourced partner. Per our service agreements, the controls previously established around
these accounting functions will be maintained by our outsourced partners and they are subject to management s internal control testing.    There were no other
changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2015, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
    Item 9B. Other Information.     None.  
      120  

PART III   
    Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.   
 Information required by this Item 10 is included under the heading  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K, as
well as under the headings  Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance - Governance Guidelines,   Corporate Governance - Codes of Conduct,   Board Committees and Membership - Audit Committee  and
 Ownership of Equity Securities - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled to be held on May 18, 2016 ( 2016 Proxy
Statement ). All of this information from the 2016 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.    The information on our web site is
not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.  
    Item 11.  Executive Compensation.   
 Information required by this Item 11 is included under the headings  Board Committees and Membership - Human Resources and Compensation Committee, 
 Compensation of Non-Employee Directors,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation Tables  and  Human Resources and Compensation Committee Report for the Year Ended December 31,
2015  in our 2016 Proxy Statement. All of this information is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.  
    Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.   
 The number of shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting of awards issued under, and the number of shares remaining available for future issuance under, our equity
compensation plans at December 31, 2015 were:     Equity Compensation Plan Information   

Number of Securities  

Remaining Available for  

Number of Securities to  

Future Issuance under  

be Issued Upon Exercise  

Weighted Average  

Equity Compensation  

of Outstanding  

Exercise Price of  

Plans (excluding  

Options, Warrants  

Outstanding Options,  

securities reflected  

and Rights (1)  

Warrants and Rights  

in column (a)) (2)  

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders  

64,471,717 

$ 
 26.12 

81,775,279 

(1) 
 Includes vesting of deferred stock units and long-term incentive plan stock.    
 
 Information related to the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is included in our 2016 Proxy Statement under the heading  Ownership of
Equity Securities  and is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.       Item 13.  Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence.     Information required by this Item 13 is included under the headings  Corporate Governance - Director
Independence  and  Corporate Governance - Review of Transactions with Related Persons  in our 2016 Proxy Statement. All of this information is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.  
    Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services.   
 Information required by this Item 14 is included under the heading  Board Committees and Membership - Audit Committee  in our 2016 Proxy Statement. All
of this information is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.  
      121  

PART IV   
    Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.       

(a)  
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules         
   Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted either because such schedules are not required or are not applicable.  
      122  

(b)  
  The following exhibits are filed as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report:         

2.1 
   
 Separation and Distribution Agreement between the Registrant and Kraft Foods Group, Inc., dated as of September 27, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the SEC on October 1, 2012).*  

2.2 
   
 Canadian Asset Transfer Agreement, by and between Mondelez Canada Inc. and Kraft Canada Inc., dated as of September 29, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.3 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form  10-K  filed with the SEC on February 25, 2013).*  

2.3 
   
 Master Ownership and License Agreement Regarding Patents, Trade Secrets and Related Intellectual Property, among Kraft Foods Global Brands LLC, Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC, Kraft Foods UK Ltd. and Kraft Foods R D Inc., dated as
of October 1, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 1, 2012).*  

2.4 
   
 Master Ownership and License Agreement Regarding Trademarks and Related Intellectual Property, by and between Kraft Foods Global Brands LLC and Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC., dated as of September 27, 2012 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 1, 2012).*  

2.5 
   
 First Amendment to the Master Ownerships and License Agreement Regarding Trademarks and Related Intellectual Property, among Intercontinental Great Brands LLC and Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC, dated as of July 15, 2013 (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on April 30, 2015).  

2.6 
   
 Second Amendment to the Master Ownership and License Agreement Regarding Trademarks and Related Intellectual Property, among Intercontinental Great Brands LLC and Kraft Foods Group Brands LLC, dated as of October 1, 2014
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on April 30, 2015).  

3.1 
   
 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, effective March 14, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on May 8,
2013).  

3.2 
   
 Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant, effective as of October 9, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 7, 2015).  

4.1 
   
 The Registrant agrees to furnish to the SEC upon request copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed 10 percent of the total
assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

4.2 
   
 Indenture, by and between the Registrant and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas (as successor trustee to The Bank of New York and The Chase Manhattan Bank), dated as of October 17, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No. 333-86478) filed with the SEC on April 18, 2002).  

4.3 
   
 Supplemental Indenture, by and between the Registrant and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and Deutsche Bank Luxembourg S.A., dated as of December 11, 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on December 11, 2013).  

4.4 
   
 Form of Indenture between Mondel z International, Inc. and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No.
333-194330) filed with the SEC on March 5, 2014).   
      123  

10.1 
   
 $4.5 Billion 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, by and among the Registrant, the initial lenders named therein, JPMorgan Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA)
LLC and HSBC Securities (USA) LLC, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as co-administrative agents, dated as of October 11, 2013 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 3, 2014).  

10.2 
   
 Tax Sharing Agreement, by and between the Registrant and Altria Group, Inc., dated as of March 30, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 30,
2007).  

10.3 
   
 Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement, by and between the Registrant and Kraft Foods Group, Inc., dated as of September 27, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the SEC on October 1, 2012).  

10.4 
   
 Global Contribution Agreement by and among Mondel z International Holdings, LLC, Acorn Holdings B.V., Charger Top HoldCo B.V. and Charger OpCo B.V., dated May 7, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 8, 2014).**  

10.5 
   
 Amendment Agreement to Global Contribution Agreement by and among Mondel z International Holdings LLC, Acorn Holdings B.V., Jacobs Douwe Egberts B.V. (formerly Charger Top HoldCo B.V.) and Jacobs Douwe Egberts International
B.V. (formerly Charger OpCo B.V.), dated July 28, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on July 31, 2015).**  

10.6 
   
 Shareholders  Agreement by and among Mondel z International Holdings, LLC, Delta Charger HoldCo B.V. and Charger Top HoldCo B.V., dated May 7, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 8, 2014).**  

10.7 
   
 Amendment Agreement to Shareholders  Agreement by and among Delta Charger HoldCo B.V., Mondelez Coffee HoldCo B.V. and Jacobs Douwe Egberts B.V. (formerly Charger Top HoldCo B.V.), dated July 28, 2015 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on July 31, 2015).**  

10.8 
   
 Settlement Agreement, between the Registrant and Kraft Foods Group, Inc., dated June 22, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on July 31,
2015).  

10.9 
   
 Mondel z International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan, amended and restated as of May 21, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the SEC on May 22, 2014).+  

10.10 
   
 Form of Mondel z International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for Mondel z International Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the
Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 20, 2015).+  

10.11 
   
 Form of Mondel z International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan Global Deferred Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
with the SEC on February 20, 2015).+  

10.12 
   
 Form of Mondel z International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan Non-Qualified U.S. Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed with the SEC on February 20, 2015).+  

10.13 
   
 Form of Mondel z International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan Non-Qualified Non-U.S. Stock Option Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
10-K filed with the SEC on February 20, 2015).+  

10.14 
   
 Form of Mondel z International, Inc. Amended and Restated 2005 Performance Incentive Plan Global Long-Term Incentive Grant Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
10-K filed with the SEC on February 20, 2015).+   
      124  

125  

10.30 
   
 Offer of Employment Letter, between Mondel z Global LLC and Roberto de Oliveira Marques, dated February 20, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on  Form 10-Q  filed with the SEC on April 30, 2015).+  

10.31 
   
 Retirement Agreement and General Release, between Mondel z Global LLC and David Brearton, dated December 15, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC
on December 18, 2015).+  

10.32 
   
 Form of Indemnification Agreement for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to 10.28 to the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009).+  

10.33 
   
 Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and Irene B. Rosenfeld, dated January 27, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2,
2009).+  

12.1 
   
 Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

21.1 
   
 Subsidiaries of the Registrant.  

23.1 
   
 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

31.1 
   
 Certification of the Registrant s Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2 
   
 Certification of the Registrant s Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1 
   
 Certifications of the Registrant s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

101.1 
   
 The following materials from Mondel z International s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

* 
 Upon request, Mondel z International, Inc. agrees to furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, on a supplemental basis, a copy of any omitted schedule or exhibit to such agreement.    

** 
 Portions of this exhibit (indicated by asterisks) have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment and have been separately filed with the SEC.    

+ 
 Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.    
      126  

SIGNATURES   
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

MONDEL Z INTERNATIONAL, INC.  

By: 
   
   /s/  BRIAN T. GLADDEN   

(Brian T. Gladden  

Executive Vice President  

and Chief Financial Officer)  
 
  Date: February 19, 2016    Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:  

127  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
  ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE     To the Board of Directors of
Mondel z International, Inc.:    Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
referred to in our report dated February 19, 2016 appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Mondel z International, Inc. also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  
 /s/ P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP    Chicago, Illinois
   February 19, 2016  
      S-1  

Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts      For the
Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013      (in millions)       

   Notes:  

(a) 
 Primarily related to divestitures, acquisitions and currency translation.    

(b) 
 Represents charges for which allowances were created.    
      S-2  

<EX-12.1>
 2
 d51394dex121.htm
 EX-12.1

EX-12.1 

EXHIBIT 12.1   
  Mondel z International, Inc. and Subsidiaries   
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges   
  (in millions of dollars)       
   Notes:  

(a) 
 Excludes interest related to uncertain tax positions, which is recorded in our tax provision.    

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 d51394dex211.htm
 EX-21.1

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1       

Mondel z International, Inc.  
  Subsidiaries   2015   
    
  Country   

LU Algerie S.p.A.  
    
 Algeria  
 
   Cadbury Bebidas De Argentina S.A.  
    
 Argentina  
 
   Mondelez Argentina S.A.  
    
 Argentina  
 
   Nabisco Inversiones S.R.L.  
    
 Argentina  
 
   Van Mar SA  
    
 Argentina  
 
   Cadbury Marketing Services Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   General Foods Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   KF (Australia) Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Kraft Jacobs Suchard (Australia) Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Lanes Biscuits Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Lanes Food (Australia) Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   MacRobertson Pty Limited  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez Australia (Foods) Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez Australia Group Co Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez Australia Group Investments LP  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez Australia Holdings Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez Australia Investments Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez Australia Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Mondelez New Zealand Holdings (Australia) Pty. Ltd.  
    
 Australia  
 
   Recaldent Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   The Natural Confectionery Co. Pty Ltd  
    
 Australia  
 
   Kraft Foods CEEMA GmbH  
    
 Austria  
 
   Mirabell Salzburger Confiserie-und Bisquit GmbH  
    
 Austria  
 
   Mondelez Oesterreich GmbH  
    
 Austria  
 
   Mondelez Oesterreich Production GmbH  
    
 Austria  
 
   Salzburger Suesswarenfabrik K.G.  
    
 Austria  
 
   Fulmer Corporation Limited  
    
 Bahamas  
 
   Mondelez Bahrain Biscuits WLL  
    
 Bahrain  
 
   Mondelez Bahrain W.L.L.  
    
 Bahrain  
 
   OOO Mondelez International Bel  
    
 Belarus  
 
   Cadbury Belgium BVBA  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Confibel SPRL  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Kraft Foods Belgium Intellectual Property  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Kraft Foods Belgium Production Holdings BVBA  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Kraft Foods Production Holdings Maatschap  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez Belgium Biscuits Production NV  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez Belgium BVBA  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez Belgium Manufacturing Services BVBA  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez Belgium Production BVBA  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez Belgium Services BVBA  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez Namur Production SPRL  
    
 Belgium  
 
   Mondelez de Alimentos Bolivia S.R.L.  
    
 Bolivia  
 
   Cadbury Botswana (Proprietary) Limited  
    
 Botswana  
 
   Cadbury Confy (Proprietary) Limited  
    
 Botswana  
 
   K S Alimentos S.A.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Lacta Alimentos Ltda.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Mondelez Brasil Ltda.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Mondelez Brasil Norte Nordeste Ltda.  
    
 Brazil  
 
   Mondelez Bulgaria EOOD  
    
 Bulgaria  
 
   Mondelez Bulgaria Holding AD  
    
 Bulgaria  
 
   Mondelez Bulgaria Production EOOD  
    
 Bulgaria   

152999 Canada Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   3072440 Nova Scotia Company  
    
 Canada  
 
   MCI Finance Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   Mondelez Asia Pacific (Alberta) GP ULC  
    
 Canada  
 
   Mondelez Canada Holdings Two ULC  
    
 Canada  
 
   Mondelez Canada Holdings ULC  
    
 Canada  
 
   Mondelez Canada Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   TCI Realty Holdings Inc.  
    
 Canada  
 
   Cadbury Stani Adams Chile Productos Alimenticios Limitada  
    
 Chile  
 
   Mondelez Chile S.A.  
    
 Chile  
 
   Cadbury Confectionery (Guangzhou) Co., Limited  
    
 China  
 
   Cadbury Food Co. Limited China  
    
 China  
 
   Mondelez Beijing Food Co., Ltd.  
    
 China  
 
   Mondelez China Co., Ltd  
    
 China  
 
   Mondelez Jiangmen Food Co., Ltd.  
    
 China  
 
   Mondelez Shanghai Food Co., Ltd.  
    
 China  
 
   Mondelez Shanghai Foods Corporate Management Co., Ltd.  
    
 China  
 
   Mondelez Suzhou Food Co., Ltd.  
    
 China  
 
   Nabisco Food (Suzhou) Co. Ltd.  
    
 China  
 
   Industria de Colores y Sabores S.A.S.  
    
 Colombia  
 
   Kraft Foods Colombia S.A.S.  
    
 Colombia  
 
   Mondelez Colombia S.A.S.  
    
 Colombia  
 
   Servicios Comerciales Colombia SAS  
    
 Colombia  
 
   El Gallito Industrial, S.A.  
    
 Costa Rica  
 
   Mondelez Business Services Costa Rica Limitada  
    
 Costa Rica  
 
   Mondelez Costa Rica Limitada  
    
 Costa Rica  
 
   Mondelez Zagreb d.o.o.  
    
 Croatia  
 
   Gum Management Services Ltd  
    
 Cyprus  
 
   Mondelez CR Biscuit Production s.r.o.  
    
 Czech Republic  
 
   Mondelez Czech Republic s.r.o.  
    
 Czech Republic  
 
   Opavia Lu s.r.o.  
    
 Czech Republic  
 
   Kraft Foods Danmark Intellectual Property ApS  
    
 Denmark  
 
   Mondelez Danmark ApS  
    
 Denmark  
 
   Mondelez Dominicana, S.A.  
    
 Dominican Republic  
 
   Mondelez Ecuador Cia. Ltda.  
    
 Ecuador  
 
   Cadbury Egypt for Importation  
    
 Egypt  
 
   Mondelez Egypt Foods S.A.E.  
    
 Egypt  
 
   Mondelez Egypt Trading LLC  
    
 Egypt  
 
   Mondelez El Salvador, Ltda. de C.V.  
    
 El Salvador  
 
   Mondelez Eesti Osauhing  
    
 Estonia  
 
   Kraft Foods Finland Production Oy  
    
 Finland  
 
   Mondelez Finland OY  
    
 Finland  
 
   Kraft Foods France Biscuit S.A.S.  
    
 France  
 
   Kraft Foods France Intellectual Property S.A.S.  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France Antilles Guyane Distribution SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France Biscuit Distribution SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France Biscuits Production SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France Confectionery Production SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France Ocean Indien Distribution SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France R D SAS  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez France S.A.S.  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez Strasbourg Production S.A.S.  
    
 France  
 
   Mondelez Georgia LLC  
    
 Georgia  
 
   Carlton Lebensmittel Vertriebs GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Don Snack Foods Handelsgesellschaft GmbH  
    
 Germany   

Kraft Foods Deutschland Biscuits Grundstuecksverwaltungs GmbH   Co. KG  
    
 Germany  
 
   Kraft Foods Deutschland Holding Grundstuecksverwaltungs GmbH   Co. KG  
    
 Germany  
 
   Kraft Foods Deutschland Production Grundstuecksverwaltungs GmbH   Co. KG  
    
 Germany  
 
   Marabou GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Mondelez Deutschland Biscuits Production GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Mondelez Deutschland GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Mondelez Deutschland Professional GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Mondelez Deutschland R D GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Mondelez Deutschland Services GmbH   Co. KG  
    
 Germany  
 
   Mondelez Deutschland Snacks Production GmbH   Co. KG  
    
 Germany  
 
   Suchard GmbH  
    
 Germany  
 
   Tobler  
    
 Germany  
 
   Cadbury Ghana Limited  
    
 Ghana  
 
   Lapworth Commodities Limited  
    
 Ghana  
 
   Mondelez Hellas Production S.A.  
    
 Greece  
 
   Mondelez Hellas S.A.  
    
 Greece  
 
   Mondelez Korinthos Production S.A.  
    
 Greece  
 
   Mondelez Guatemala, Ltda.  
    
 Guatemala  
 
   Landers Centro Americana, Fabricantes de Molinos Marca  Corona  S.A. de C.V.  
    
 Honduras  
 
   Mondelez Honduras, S. de R.L.  
    
 Honduras  
 
   Cadbury Trading Hong Kong Ltd.  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Mondelez Hong Kong Limited  
    
 Hong Kong  
 
   Gyori Keksz Kft SARL  
    
 Hungary  
 
   Mondelez Hungaria IP Kft  
    
 Hungary  
 
   Mondelez Hungaria Kft  
    
 Hungary  
 
   C S Business Services (India) Pvt. Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Induri Farm Limited  
    
 India  
 
   KJS India Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   Mondelez India Foods Private Limited  
    
 India  
 
   P.T. Cadbury Indonesia  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   P.T. Cipta Manis Makmur  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   P.T. Kraft Symphoni Indonesia  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   P.T. Kraft Ultrajaya Indonesia  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   P.T. Mondelez Indonesia  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   P.T. Mondelez Indonesia Manufacturing  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   P.T. Mondelez Indonesia Trading  
    
 Indonesia  
 
   Alreford Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Berkeley Re Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Ireland Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Treasury America  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Treasury International  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Treasury Services  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Kraft Foods Ireland Intellectual Property Ltd  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Mondelez Ireland Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Mondelez Ireland Production Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Seurat  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Sunkist Soft Drinks International Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Trebor (Dublin) Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Trebor Ireland Limited  
    
 Ireland  
 
   Greencastle Drinks Limited  
    
 Ireland/Netherlands  
 
   Cote d Or Italia S.r.l.  
    
 Italy  
 
   Fattorie Osella S.p.A.  
    
 Italy  
 
   Kraft Foods Italia Intellectual Property S.r.l.  
    
 Italy  
 
   Mondelez Italia Biscuits Production S.p.A  
    
 Italy  
 
   Mondelez Italia Production S.r.l.  
    
 Italy   

Mondelez Italia S.r.l.  
    
 Italy  
 
   Mondelez Italia Services S.r.l.  
    
 Italy  
 
   Kraft Foods Jamaica Limited  
    
 Jamaica  
 
   Kraft Foods Japan K.K.  
    
 Japan  
 
   Meito Adams Company Limited  
    
 Japan  
 
   Mondelez Japan Ltd  
    
 Japan  
 
   Mondelez Japan Ltd TK  
    
 Japan  
 
   Mondelez Kazakhstan LLP  
    
 Kazakhstan  
 
   Cadbury Kenya Limited  
    
 Kenya  
 
   Dong Suh Foods Corporation  
    
 Korea  
 
   Migabang Limited Company  
    
 Korea  
 
   SIA Mondelez Latvija  
    
 Latvia  
 
   Cadbury Adams Middle East Offshore S.A.L.  
    
 Lebanon  
 
   Cadbury Adams Middle East S.A.L.  
    
 Lebanon  
 
   AB Kraft Foods Lietuva  
    
 Lithuania  
 
   UAB Mondelez Baltic  
    
 Lithuania  
 
   UAB Mondelez Lietuva Production  
    
 Lithuania  
 
   Adams Marketing (M) Sdn Bhd  
    
 Malaysia  
 
   Cadbury Confectionery Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
    
 Malaysia  
 
   Cadbury Confectionery Sales (M) Sdn. Bhd.  
    
 Malaysia  
 
   Mondelez Malaysia Sales Sdn. Bhd.  
    
 Malaysia  
 
   Mondelez Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.  
    
 Malaysia  
 
   Cadbury Mauritius Ltd  
    
 Mauritius  
 
   Corporativo Mondelez, S. en N.C. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Mondelez Holding, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Mondelez Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Productos Mondelez, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Servicios Intregales Mondelez, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Servicios Mondelez, S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    
 Mexico  
 
   Mondelez Maroc SA  
    
 Morocco  
 
   STE Immobiliere Ibrahim D Ain Sebaa  
    
 Morocco  
 
   Springer Schokoladenfabrik (Pty) Limited  
    
 Namibia  
 
   Abades B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Aztecanana BV  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Cadbury CIS B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Cadbury Enterprises Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Cadbury Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Cadbury Netherlands International Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Gernika, B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods Central   Eastern Europe Service B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods  esko Holdings BV  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods Entity Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods Holland Holding BV  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods Intercontinental Netherlands C.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods LA MB Holding B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods LA MC B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods LA NMB B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods LA NVA B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods LA VA Holding B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods Nederland Biscuit C.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods Nederland Intellectual Property BV  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Kraft Foods North America and Asia B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   KTL S. de R.L. de C.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Merola Finance B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Mondelez Coffee Holdco BV  
    
 Netherlands   

Mondelez Espana Biscuits Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Mondelez Nederland B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Mondelez Nederland Services B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Mondelez Netherlands RUS Holdings B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Nabisco Holdings II B.V.  
    
 Netherlands  
 
   Mondelez New Zealand  
    
 New Zealand  
 
   Mondelez New Zealand Investments  
    
 New Zealand  
 
   Mondelez Nicaragua, S.A.  
    
 Nicaragua  
 
   Cadbury Nigeria PLC  
    
 Nigeria  
 
   Freia A/S  
    
 Norway  
 
   Kraft Foods Norge Intellectual Property AS  
    
 Norway  
 
   Mondelez Norge A/S  
    
 Norway  
 
   Mondelez Norge Production AS  
    
 Norway  
 
   Mondelez Pakistan Limited  
    
 Pakistan  
 
   Mondelez Panama, S. de R.L.  
    
 Panama  
 
   Mondelez Peru S.A.  
    
 Peru  
 
   Mondelez Philippines, Inc.  
    
 Philippines  
 
   Nabisco Philippines Inc.  
    
 Philippines  
 
   Lu Polska Sp. z.o.o.  
    
 Poland  
 
   Mondelez International RD Q Sp. z.o.o.  
    
 Poland  
 
   Mondelez Polska Production sp. z.o.o.  
    
 Poland  
 
   Mondelez Polska Sp. z.o.o.  
    
 Poland  
 
   Mondelez Portugal Iberia Production, S.A.  
    
 Portugal  
 
   Mondelez Portugal, Unipessoal Lda.  
    
 Portugal  
 
   Mondelez Puerto Rico LLC  
    
 Puerto Rico  
 
   Mondelez Romania S.A.  
    
 Romania  
 
   Mon delez Rus LLC  
    
 Russia  
 
   Mondelez Arabia for Trading LLC  
    
 Saudi Arabia  
 
   Nabisco Arabia Co. Ltd.  
    
 Saudi Arabia  
 
   Mondelez d.o.o. Beograd  
    
 Serbia  
 
   Mondelez Procurement d.o.o. Beograd  
    
 Serbia  
 
   Cadbury Enterprises Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Kraft Foods Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Kraft Foods Trading Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Kraft Helix Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Kuan Enterprises Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Mondelez Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Mondelez Business Services AP Pte Ltd  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Mondelez Singapore Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Symphony Biscuits Holdings Pte. Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Taloca (Singapore) Pte Ltd.  
    
 Singapore  
 
   Mondelez European Business Services Centre s.r.o.  
    
 Slovakia  
 
   Mondelez Slovakia Holding a.s.  
    
 Slovakia  
 
   Mondelez Slovakia Intellectual Property s.r.o.  
    
 Slovakia  
 
   Mondelez Slovakia s.r.o.  
    
 Slovakia  
 
   Mondelez SR Production s.r.o.  
    
 Slovakia  
 
   Mondelez, trgovska druzba, d.o.o, Ljubjana  
    
 Slovenia  
 
   Cadbury South Africa (Pty) Limited  
    
 South Africa  
 
   Chapelat-Humphries Investments (Pty) Limited  
    
 South Africa  
 
   Kraft Foods Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd.  
    
 South Africa  
 
   Mondelez South Africa (Pty) Ltd.  
    
 South Africa  
 
   South Africa LP  
    
 South Africa  
 
   Kraft Foods Espana Holdings S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Kraft Foods Espana Intellectual Property SLU  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Espana Biscuits Holdings y Campania S.L.  
    
 Spain   

Mondelez Espana Commercial, S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Espana Confectionery Production, SLU  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Espana Galletas Production, S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Espana Postres Production, S.A.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Espana Production, S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Espana Services, S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Mondelez Iberia Holdings, S.L.U.  
    
 Spain  
 
   Chapelat Swaziland (Proprietary) Limited  
    
 Swaziland  
 
   Cadbury (Swaziland) (Pty) Limited  
    
 Swaziland/South Africa  
 
   Kraft Foods Sverige Holding AB  
    
 Sweden  
 
   Kraft Foods Sverige Intellectual Property AB  
    
 Sweden  
 
   Mondelez Sverige AB  
    
 Sweden  
 
   Mondelez Sverige Production AB  
    
 Sweden  
 
   Consodri Investments AG  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Kraft Foods Biscuits Holding GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Kraft Foods Holding (Europa) GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Kraft Foods Schweiz Holding GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Europe GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Europe Procurement GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Europe Services GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez International Finance AG  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Schweiz GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Schweiz Holding GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Schweiz Production GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez World Travel Retail GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Taloca GmbH  
    
 Switzerland  
 
   Mondelez Taiwan Limited  
    
 Taiwan  
 
   Mondelez (Thailand) Co., Ltd.  
    
 Thailand  
 
   Mondelez International (Thailand) Co., Ltd  
    
 Thailand  
 
   Kraft Foods (Trinidad) Unlimited  
    
 Trinidad  
 
   Kent Gida Maddeleri Sanayii ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi  
    
 Turkey  
 
   Cadbury South Africa (Holdings)  
    
 UK/South Africa  
 
   Dirol Cadbury Ukraine SFE  
    
 Ukraine  
 
   LLC Chipsy LYUKS  
    
 Ukraine  
 
   Private Joint Stock Company  Mondelez Ukraina   
    
 Ukraine  
 
   Mondelez Eastern Europe Middle East   Africa FZE  
    
 United Arab Emirates  
 
   Arcadian of Devon Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Brentwick Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Eight LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Financial Services  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Four LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury International Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Nine LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Nominees Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Russia Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Russia Two Ltd  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Finance Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Investments Ltd  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Overseas Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Seven LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Six LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Ten LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Three LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury Two LLP  
    
 United Kingdom   

Cadbury UK Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Cadbury US Holdings Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Chromium Acquisitions Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Chromium Assets Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Chromium Suchex LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Chromium Suchex No. 3 LLP  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Craven Keiller  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Ernest Jackson   Co Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Galactogen Products Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Green   Black s Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Hesdin Investments Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Kraft Foods Investment Holdings UK Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Kraft Foods UK Intellectual Property Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Kraft Foods UK IP   Production Holdings Ltd.  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Kraft Russia Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   L. Rose   Co., Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Mondelez UK Biscuit Financing Ltd  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Mondelez UK Confectionery Production Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Mondelez UK Holdings   Services Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Mondelez UK Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Mondelez UK Production Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Mondelez UK R D Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Reading Scientific Services Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Schweppes Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Somerdale Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   The Old Leo Company Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Trebor Bassett Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Trebor International Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   Vantas International Limited  
    
 United Kingdom  
 
   B2N Corporation  
    
 United States  
 
   Back to Nature Food Company, LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes US Finance LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Callard   Bowser-Suchard, Inc.  
    
 United States  
 
   Enjoy Life Natural Brands, LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Intercontinental Brands LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Intercontinental Great Brands LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC IX  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC VII  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC VIII  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC XI  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC XIII  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC XIV  
    
 United States  
 
   KFI-USLLC XVI  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods Asia Pacific Services LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods Biscuit Brands Kuan LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods Brentwick LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods International Beverages LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods International Biscuit Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods International Europe Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods International Holdings Delaware LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods International Services LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods Latin America Holding LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods R   D, Inc.  
    
 United States  
 
   Kraft Foods Taiwan Holdings LLC  
    
 United States   

Mondel z BTN Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondel z Global LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondelez International Delaware LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondelez International Financing Delaware LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondel z International Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondel z International Service Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondel z International Service LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondelez International SM, LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondelez Suchex Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Mondelez Thrive Investment LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Nabisco International Limited  
    
 United States  
 
   Nabisco Royal Argentina LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   NISA Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   NSA Holdings LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Redbird Services LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   Suchex IV LLC  
    
 United States  
 
   C.A.S. Uruguay S.A.  
    
 Uruguay  
 
   Mondelez Uruguay S.A.  
    
 Uruguay  
 
   Cadbury Adams, S.A.  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Cadbury Beverages de Venezuela CA  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Compania Venezolana de Conservas C.A.  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Covenco Holding C.A.  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Kraft Foods Venezuela, C. A.  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Promotora Cadbury Adams, C.A.  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Tevalca Holdings C.A.  
    
 Venezuela  
 
   Binh Doung Kinh Do Corporation  
    
 Vietnam  
 
   North Kinh Do One Member Company Limited  
    
 Vietnam  
 
   Cadbury Schweppes Zimbabwe (Private) Limited  
    
 Zimbabwe  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 d51394dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1   
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     We
hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form  S-3  (File No. 333-194330) and on Form S-8 (No. 333-197088, 333-184178, 333-183993, 333-183992, 333-182066,
333-174665, 333-165736, 333-133559, 333-125992 and 333-71266) of Mondel z International, Inc. of our reports dated February 19, 2016 relating to the consolidated financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, which appear in this Form 10-K.    /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
 Chicago, Illinois    February 19, 2016  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 d51394dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1   
  Certifications     I, Irene B. Rosenfeld, certify that:  

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Mondel z International, Inc.;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        

(a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

(b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

(c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

(d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

(a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

(b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 Date: February 19, 2016   

/s/ IRENE B. ROSENFELD  
 
 Irene B. Rosenfeld  
 
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 d51394dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2   
  Certifications       

I, 
 Brian T. Gladden, certify that:        

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Mondel z International, Inc.;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        

(a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

(b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

(c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

(d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the
registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

(a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

(b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.    
 Date: February 19, 2016       

/s/ BRIAN T. GLADDEN  
 
 Brian T. Gladden  
 
 Executive Vice President and  
 
 Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 d51394dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1   
  CERTIFICATIONS OF      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER      PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE   
  SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     I, Irene B. Rosenfeld, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Mondel z International, Inc. ( Mondel z International ), certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that
Mondel z International s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2015, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained
in Mondel z International s Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects Mondel z International s financial condition and results of operations.  

/s/ IRENE B. ROSENFELD   
 
   Irene B. Rosenfeld   
 
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
   February 19, 2016   
   I, Brian T. Gladden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mondel z International, Inc.
( Mondel z International ), certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that Mondel z International s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
period ended December 31, 2015, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in Mondel z International s Annual Report on Form 10-K
fairly presents in all material respects Mondel z International s financial condition and results of operations.      

/s/ BRIAN T. GLADDEN   
 
   Brian T. Gladden   
 
   Executive Vice President and   
 
   Chief Financial Officer   
 
   February 19, 2016   
    A signed original of these written statements required by Section 906, or other document authenticating, acknowledging, or
otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Mondel z International, Inc. and will be retained by
Mondel z International, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 8
 mdlz-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 9
 mdlz-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 10
 mdlz-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 11
 mdlz-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 12
 mdlz-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 13
 mdlz-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

