<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20091120_10-K_edgar_data_829224_0000950123-09-064772_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4865186</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>256545</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>218711</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1042798</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1386058</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1546044</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>90</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-09-064772.hdr.sgml : 20091120

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20091120164450

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-09-064772

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		44

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090927

FILED AS OF DATE:		20091120

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20091120


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			STARBUCKS CORP

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000829224

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-EATING & DRINKING PLACES [5810]

		IRS NUMBER:				911325671

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WA

		FISCAL YEAR END:			0928



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20322

		FILM NUMBER:		091199159



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		P O BOX 34067

		CITY:			SEATTLE

		STATE:			WA

		ZIP:			98124-1067

		BUSINESS PHONE:		2064471575



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		2401 UTAH AVENUE SOUTH

		CITY:			SEATTLE

		STATE:			WA

		ZIP:			98134




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BU5KZvmKLOp+qs9ClObzEdcP2eK19PeiFV63fRBI7eWEP/UQ0cC+OkcG5XxWpNfS
 QhGeKtW87UgXZBUwRjk/GA==

 0000950123-09-064772.txt : 20091120

10-K
 1
 v53316e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, DC 20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission File
     Number: 0-20322  

Starbucks Corporation  

(Exact Name of Registrant as
    Specified in Its Charter)  

2401 Utah
    Avenue South 
    Seattle, Washington 98134 
     (206) 447-1575  
         (Address
    of principal executive offices, zip code, telephone
    number)   

Securities
    Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of Each Class 

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 

Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share

Nasdaq Global Select Market

Securities
    Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
    None  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation of S-K is not contained
    herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
    registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
    statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
    Form  10-K  or
    any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
    accelerated
    filer    
      
           Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated 
    filer    
      
           Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of
    the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
    quarter, based upon the closing sale price of the
    registrant s common stock on March 27, 2009 as
    reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was
    $8.4 billion. As of November 13, 2009, there were
    approximately 740.2 million shares of the registrant s
    Common Stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement for the
    registrant s Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    March 24, 2010 have been incorporated by reference into
    Part III of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION  

Form 10-K   

For the
    Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2009  

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

PART I  

Item 1 

Business 

1

Item 1A 

Risk Factors 

8

Item 1B 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

14

Item 2 

Properties 

14

Item 3 

Legal Proceedings 

14

Item 4 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

14

PART II  

Item 5 

Market for the Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

17

Item 6 

Selected Financial Data 

19

Item 7 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

21

Item 7A 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

39

Item 8 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

40

Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm 

78

Item 9 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

79

Item 9A 

Controls and Procedures 

79

Item 9B 

Other Information 

81

PART III  

Item 10 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

81

Item 11 

Executive Compensation 

81

Item 12 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 

81

Item 13 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

81

Item 14 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

81

PART IV  

Item 15 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

82

SIGNATURES 

83

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

85

EX-12    
     EX-21    
     EX-23    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

General  

Starbucks is the premier roaster and retailer of specialty
    coffee in the world. Starbucks Corporation was formed in 1985
    and its common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market
    ( NASDAQ ) under the symbol  SBUX. 
    Starbucks (together with its subsidiaries,  Starbucks 
    or the  Company ) purchases and roasts high-quality
    whole bean coffees and sells them, along with fresh, rich-brewed
    coffees, Italian-style espresso beverages, cold blended
    beverages, a variety of complementary food items, a selection of
    premium teas, and beverage-related accessories and equipment,
    primarily through Company-operated retail stores. Starbucks also
    sells coffee and tea products and licenses its trademark through
    other channels such as licensed retail stores and, through
    certain of its licensees and equity investees, Starbucks
    produces and sells a variety of
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages. All channels outside the Company-operated retail
    stores are collectively known as specialty operations.

The Company s objective is to maintain Starbucks standing
    as one of the most recognized and respected brands in the world.
    To achieve this goal, the Company plans to continue disciplined
    global expansion of its retail and licensed store base, to
    introduce relevant new products in all its channels, and to
    selectively develop new channels of distribution. The
    Company s Global Responsibility strategy and commitments
    related to coffee and the communities it does business in, as
    well as its focus on being an employer of choice, are also key
    complements to its business strategies.

Segment
    Financial Information  

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments, and each
    segment provided the indicated percentage of total net revenues
    for fiscal year ended September 27, 2009 ( fiscal
    2009 ): United States ( US ) (73%), International
    (19%) and Global Consumer Products Group ( CPG ) (8%).
    In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company changed the
    composition of its reportable segments. The US foodservice
    business, which was previously reported in the US segment, is
    now reported in the CPG segment, as a result of internal
    management realignments within the US and CPG businesses.
    Segment information for all prior periods presented has been
    revised to reflect this change.

The US and International segments both include Company-operated
    retail stores and certain components of specialty operations.
    Specialty operations within the US include licensed retail
    stores and other initiatives related to the Company s core
    business. International specialty operations primarily consist
    of retail store licensing operations in nearly 40 countries and
    foodservice accounts in Canada and the United Kingdom
    ( UK ). The International segment s largest
    markets, based on number of Company-operated and licensed retail
    stores, are Canada, Japan and the UK. The CPG segment includes
    packaged coffee and tea, and other branded products sold
    worldwide through channels such as grocery stores, warehouse
    clubs and convenience stores, and US foodservice accounts. CPG
    operates a significant portion of its business through licensing
    arrangements and joint ventures with large consumer products
    business partners. This operating model leverages the business
    partners  existing infrastructures and as a result, the CPG
    segment reflects relatively lower revenues, a modest cost
    structure, and a resulting higher operating margin, compared to
    the Company s other two reporting segments, which consist
    primarily of retail stores.

Financial information about Starbucks segments is included in
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included
    in Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
     ( 10-K  
    or  Report ).

1

Table of Contents   

Revenue
    Components  

Revenue components as a percentage of total net revenues and
    related specialty revenues for the fiscal year ended
    September 27, 2009:

Company-operated
    and Licensed Retail Store Summary as of September 27,
    2009  

Starbucks mix of Company-operated versus licensed stores in a
    given market will vary based on several factors. Some of these
    factors include the ability to access desirable local retail
    space, the complexity and expected ultimate size of the market
    for Starbucks, and the ability to leverage the Company s
    support infrastructure in an existing geographic region.

Company-operated
    Retail Stores  

The Company s retail goal is to become the leading retailer
    and brand of coffee in each of its target markets by selling the
    finest quality coffee and related products, and by providing
    each customer a unique  Starbucks Experience . The
     Starbucks Experience  is built upon superior customer
    service as well as clean and well-maintained Company-operated
    retail stores that reflect the personalities of the communities
    in which they operate, thereby building a high degree of
    customer loyalty.

Starbucks disciplined strategy for expanding its global retail
    business is to increase its market share by selectively opening
    additional stores in existing markets, opening stores in new
    markets, and increasing sales in existing stores, to support its
    long term strategic objectives. Store growth in specific
    existing markets will vary due to many factors, including the
    maturity of the market.

As described in more detail in Management s Discussion and
    Analysis in this
     10-K, 
    Starbucks has taken a number of actions in fiscal 2008 and 2009
    to rationalize its store portfolio. These actions have included
    plans (announced in July 2008 and January 2009) to close a
    total of approximately 800 Company-operated stores in the US,
    restructure its

2

Table of Contents   

Australia market, and close approximately 100 additional
    Company-operated stores internationally. As of the end of fiscal
    2009, nearly all of the approximately 800 US stores, 61 stores
    in Australia and 41 stores in other International markets have
    been closed. The remaining International closures are expected
    to be completed by the end of fiscal 2010.

Starbucks Company-operated retail stores accounted for 84% of
    total net revenues during fiscal 2009.

Summary of total Company-operated retail store data for the
    periods indicated:

Starbucks retail stores are typically located in high-traffic,
    high-visibility locations. Because the Company can vary the size
    and format, its stores are located in or near a variety of
    settings, including downtown and suburban retail centers, office
    buildings and university campuses. The Company also locates
    retail stores in select rural and off-highway locations to serve
    a broader array of customers outside major metropolitan markets.
    To provide a greater degree of access and convenience for
    nonpedestrian customers, the Company continues to selectively
    expand development of drive-thru retail stores. At the end of
    fiscal 2009, the Company operated approximately 2,650 drive-thru
    locations, representing approximately 35% of Company-operated
    stores in the US and Canada combined.

Starbucks stores offer a choice of regular and decaffeinated
    coffee beverages, a broad selection of Italian-style espresso
    beverages, cold blended beverages, iced shaken refreshment
    beverages, a selection of premium teas, distinctively packaged
    roasted whole bean coffees, and its recently launched soluble
    coffee Starbucks
    VIA  tm  

    Ready Brew ( VIA ). Starbucks stores also offer a
    variety of fresh food items, including healthier choice
    selections focusing on high-quality ingredients, nutritional
    value and great flavor. Food items include pastries, prepared
    breakfast and lunch sandwiches, oatmeal, and salads as well as
    sodas, juices and bottled water. Starbucks continues to expand
    its food warming program in the US and Canada, with
    approximately three-quarters of the stores in these markets
    providing warm food items, primarily breakfast sandwiches, as of
    September 27, 2009. A selection of beverage-making
    equipment and accessories are also sold in the stores. Each
    Starbucks store varies its product mix depending upon the size
    of the store and its location. Larger stores carry a broad
    selection of the Company s whole bean coffees in various
    sizes and types of packaging, as well as coffee and
    espresso-making equipment and accessories. Smaller Starbucks
    stores and kiosks typically sell a full line of coffee
    beverages, a limited selection of whole bean coffees and a
    smaller selection of coffee and beverage-related accessories.

3

Table of Contents   

Retail sales mix by product type for Company-operated stores:

Starbucks
    Card   

The Starbucks Card program is designed to increase customer
    loyalty and the frequency of store visits by cardholders.
    Starbucks cards can be used in all Company-operated and most
    licensed stores in North America, and in a growing number of
    international markets. The cards have no expiration date and do
    not have any inactivity fees.

Specialty
    Operations  

Specialty operations strive to develop the Company s brands
    outside the Company-operated retail store environment through a
    number of channels. Starbucks strategy is to reach customers
    where they work, travel, shop and dine by establishing
    relationships with prominent third parties that share the
    Company s values and commitment to quality. These
    relationships take various forms, including licensing
    arrangements, foodservice accounts and other initiatives related
    to the Company s core businesses. In certain situations,
    Starbucks has an equity ownership interest in licensee
    operations. During fiscal 2009, specialty revenues (which
    include royalties and fees from licensees, as well as product
    sales derived from specialty operations) accounted for 16% of
    total net revenues.

Licensing  
    Retail stores   

In its licensed retail store operations which include the
    Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee brands, the Company
    leverages the expertise of its local partners and shares the
    Company s operating and store development experience.
    Licensee partners provide improved, and at times the only,
    access to desirable retail space. Most licensees are prominent
    retailers with in-depth market knowledge and access. As part of
    these arrangements, Starbucks receives royalties and license
    fees and sells coffee, tea and related products for resale in
    licensed locations. Product sales to and royalty and license fee
    revenues from US and International licensed retail stores
    accounted for 50% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2009.
    Employees working in licensed retail locations are required to
    follow Starbucks detailed store operating procedures and attend
    training classes similar to those given to employees in
    Company-operated stores.

Starbucks total licensed retail stores by region and specific
    location at fiscal year end 2009:

During fiscal 2009, net licensed store openings included 35 in
    the US and 305 internationally.

4

Table of Contents   

Licensing  
    Packaged coffee and tea   

Through a licensing relationship with Kraft Foods, Inc.
    ( Kraft ), the Company sells a selection of Starbucks
    and Seattle s Best Coffee branded packaged coffees and
    Tazo   

    teas in grocery and warehouse club stores throughout the US.
    Kraft manages all distribution, marketing, advertising and
    promotion of these products.

The Company sells packaged coffee and tea internationally both
    directly to warehouse club stores, such as Costco Wholesale
    Corporation, and to grocery stores through a licensing
    relationship with Kraft in Canada, the UK and other European
    countries.

The Company s coffees and teas are available in
    approximately 39,000 grocery and warehouse club stores, with
    33,500 in the US and 5,500 in International markets. Revenues
    from this category comprised 23% of specialty revenues in fiscal
    2009.

Licensing  
    Branded products   

The Company licenses the rights to produce and market Starbucks
    branded products through several partnerships both domestically
    and internationally. Significant licensing agreements include:

The North American Coffee Partnership, a joint venture with the
    Pepsi-Cola Company in which Starbucks is a 50% equity investor,
    manufactures and markets
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages, including bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages and Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks in US and Canada;

licensing agreements for the manufacturing, marketing and
    distribution of Starbucks
    Discoveries   ,

    a
     ready-to-drink 
    chilled cup coffee beverage, and Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks in Japan and South Korea;

a licensing agreement with a partnership formed by Unilever and
    Pepsi-Cola Company for the manufacturing, marketing and
    distribution of Starbucks super-premium
    Tazo   

    Tea
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages in the US; and

a licensing agreement with Unilever for the manufacturing,
    marketing and distribution of Starbucks super-premium ice cream
    products in the US.

Collectively, the revenues from these branded products accounted
    for 4% of specialty revenues in fiscal 2009.

Foodservice   

The Company sells whole bean and ground coffees, including the
    Starbucks and Seattle s Best Coffee brands, as well as a
    selection of premium
    Tazo   

    teas, VIA and other related products, to institutional
    foodservice companies that service business and industry,
    education, healthcare, office coffee distributors, hotels,
    restaurants, airlines and other retailers. The majority of the
    Company s sales in this channel come through national
    broadline distribution networks with SYSCO Corporation, US
    Foodservice  tm  ,

    and other distributors. The Company s total foodservice
    operations had over 21,000 accounts, primarily in the US, at
    fiscal year end 2009. Revenues from foodservice accounts
    comprised 23% of total specialty revenues in fiscal 2009.

Product
    Supply  

Starbucks is committed to selling only the finest whole bean
    coffees and coffee beverages. To ensure compliance with its
    rigorous coffee standards, Starbucks controls its coffee
    purchasing, roasting and packaging, and the global distribution
    of coffee used in its operations. The Company purchases green
    coffee beans from coffee-producing regions around the world and
    custom roasts them to its exacting standards for its many blends
    and single origin coffees.

The supply and price of coffee are subject to significant
    volatility. Although most coffee trades in the commodity market,
    high-altitude  arabica  coffee of the quality sought by the
    Company tends to trade on a negotiated basis at a substantial
    premium above commodity coffee prices, depending upon the supply
    and demand at the time of purchase. Supply and price can be
    affected by multiple factors in the producing countries,
    including weather,

5

Table of Contents   

political and economic conditions. In addition, green coffee
    prices have been affected in the past, and may be affected in
    the future, by the actions of certain organizations and
    associations that have historically attempted to influence
    prices of green coffee through agreements establishing export
    quotas or by restricting coffee supplies.

To help ensure sustainability and future supply of high-quality
    green coffees and to reinforce the Company s leadership
    role in the coffee industry, Starbucks operates Farmer Support
    Centers in Costa Rica and Rwanda. The Farmer Support Centers are
    staffed with agronomists and sustainability experts who work
    with coffee farming communities to promote best practices in
    coffee production designed to improve both coffee quality and
    yields.

The Company buys coffee using fixed-price and
     price-to-be-fixed 
    purchase commitments, depending on market conditions, to secure
    an adequate supply of quality green coffee. As of
    September 27, 2009, the Company had $238 million of
    purchase commitments which, together with existing inventory, is
    expected to provide an adequate supply of green coffee through
    fiscal 2010.

The Company depends upon its relationships with coffee
    producers, outside trading companies and exporters for its
    supply of green coffee. The Company believes, based on
    relationships established with its suppliers, the risk of
    non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.

In addition to coffee, the Company also purchases significant
    amounts of dairy products, particularly fluid milk, to support
    the needs of its Company-operated retail stores. The
    Company s highest volume of dairy purchases are in the US,
    Canada and the UK. For these markets, Starbucks purchases
    substantially all of its fluid milk requirements from six dairy
    suppliers. The Company believes, based on relationships
    established with these suppliers, the risk of non-delivery of
    sufficient fluid milk to support these retail businesses is
    remote.

Products other than whole bean coffees and coffee beverages sold
    in Starbucks retail stores are obtained through a number of
    different channels. Beverage ingredients other than coffee and
    milk, including leaf teas and the Company s selection of
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages, are purchased from several specialty suppliers,
    usually under long-term supply contracts. Food products, such as
    fresh pastries, breakfast sandwiches and lunch items, are
    purchased from national, regional and local sources.
    Coffee-making equipment, such as drip and coffee press
    coffeemakers, espresso machines and coffee grinders, are
    generally purchased directly from their manufacturers.
    Beverage-related accessories, including items bearing the
    Company s logos and trademarks, are produced and
    distributed through contracts with a number of different
    suppliers. The Company also purchases a broad range of paper and
    plastic products, such as cups and cutlery, from several
    companies to support the needs of its retail stores as well as
    its manufacturing and distribution operations. The Company
    believes, based on relationships established with these
    suppliers and manufacturers, the risk of non-delivery is remote.

Competition  

The Company s primary competitors for coffee beverage sales
    are quick-service restaurants and specialty coffee shops. In
    almost all markets in which the Company does business, there are
    numerous competitors in the specialty coffee beverage business,
    and management expects this situation to continue. The Company
    believes that its customers choose among specialty coffee
    retailers primarily on the basis of product quality, service and
    convenience, as well as price. Starbucks has been experiencing
    greater direct competition from large competitors in the US
    quick-service restaurant sector and continues to face
    competition from well-established companies in many
    International markets and in the US ready-to-drink coffee
    beverage market.

The Company s whole bean coffees and ground packaged
    coffees compete directly against specialty coffees sold through
    supermarkets, club stores and specialty retailers. The
    Company s whole bean coffees, its coffee beverages, and its
    recently launched soluble coffee VIA, compete indirectly against
    all other coffees on the market. Starbucks specialty operations
    face significant competition from established wholesale and mail
    order suppliers, some of whom have greater financial and
    marketing resources than the Company.

Starbucks also faces competition from both restaurants and other
    specialty retailers for prime retail locations and qualified
    personnel to operate both new and existing stores.

6

Table of Contents   

Patents,
    Trademarks, Copyrights and Domain Names  

The Company owns and has applied to register numerous trademarks
    and service marks in the US and in many additional countries
    throughout the world. Some of the Company s trademarks,
    including Starbucks, the Starbucks logo, Frappuccino,
    Seattle s Best Coffee and Tazo are of material importance
    to the Company. The duration of trademark registrations varies
    from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid
    and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use
     and/or  their
    registrations are properly maintained.

The Company owns numerous copyrights for items such as product
    packaging, promotional materials, in-store graphics and training
    materials. The Company also holds patents on certain products,
    systems and designs. In addition, the Company has registered and
    maintains numerous Internet domain names, including
     Starbucks.com ,  Starbucks.net , and
     Seattlesbest.com. 

Research
    and Development  

Starbucks research and development teams are responsible for the
    technical development of food and beverage products and new
    equipment. The Company spent approximately $6.5 million,
    $7.2 million and $7.0 million during fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively, on technical research and development
    activities, in addition to customary product testing and product
    and process improvements in all areas of its business.

Seasonality
    and Quarterly Results  

The Company s business is subject to seasonal fluctuations,
    including fluctuations resulting from the holiday season. The
    Company s cash flows from operations are considerably
    higher in the first fiscal quarter than the remainder of the
    year. This is largely driven by cash received as Starbucks Cards
    are purchased and loaded during the holiday season. Since
    revenues from the Starbucks Card are recognized upon redemption
    and not when purchased, seasonal fluctuations on the
    consolidated statements of earnings are much less pronounced.
    Quarterly results are affected by the timing of the opening of
    new stores and the closing of existing stores. For these
    reasons, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative
    of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.

Employees  

The Company employed approximately 142,000 people worldwide
    as of September 27, 2009. In the US, Starbucks employed
    approximately 111,000 people, with 105,000 in
    Company-operated retail stores and the remainder in the
    Company s administrative and regional offices, and store
    development, roasting and warehousing operations. Approximately
    31,000 employees were employed outside of the US, with
    30,000 in Company-operated retail stores and the remainder in
    the Company s regional support facilities and roasting and
    warehousing operations. The number of the Company s
    employees represented by unions is not significant. Starbucks
    believes its current relations with its employees are good.

Global
    Responsibility  

Starbucks is committed to being a deeply responsible company in
    the communities where it does business around the world. The
    Company s focus is on ethically sourcing high-quality
    coffee, reducing its environmental impacts and contributing
    positively to communities. Starbucks Global Responsibility
    strategy and commitments are integral to the Company s
    overall business strategy. As a result, Starbucks believes it
    delivers benefits to the Company and its stakeholders, including
    employees, business partners, customers, suppliers,
    shareholders, community members and others. For an overview of
    Starbucks Global Responsibility strategy and commitments, please
    visit www.starbucks.com.

Available
    Information  

Starbucks
     10-K 
    reports, along with all other reports and amendments filed with
    or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ), are publicly available free of charge on the
    Investor Relations section of Starbucks website at
     http://investor.starbucks.com 
    or at www.sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after these
    materials

7

Table of Contents   

are filed with or furnished to the SEC. The Company s
    corporate governance policies, code of ethics and Board
    committee charters and policies are also posted on the Investor
    Relations section of Starbucks website at
     http://investor.starbucks.com. 
    The information on the Company s website is not part of
    this or any other report Starbucks files with, or furnishes to,
    the SEC.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Starbucks is including this Cautionary Statement to make
    applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the
     Act ) for forward-looking statements. This
     10-K 
    includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Act. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact
    that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    They often include words such as  believes, 
     expects,   anticipates, 
     estimates,   intends,   plans, 
     seeks  or words of similar meaning, or future or
    conditional verbs, such as  will,   should, 
     could,   may,   aims, 
     intends,  or  projects.  A forward-looking
    statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future
    events or circumstances, and those future events or
    circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue
    reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as
    of the date of this Report. These forward-looking statements are
    all based on currently available operating, financial and
    competitive information and are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties. The Company s actual future results and
    trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors,
    including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties
    discussed below.

If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the
    cautionary factors described below actually occurs, Starbucks
    business, financial condition and results of operations could be
    materially and adversely affected. The factors listed below are
    not exhaustive. Other sections of this
     10-K  include
    additional factors that could materially and adversely impact
    Starbucks business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, Starbucks operates in a very competitive
    and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time
    to time and it is not possible for management to predict the
    impact of all these factors on Starbucks business, financial
    condition or results of operation or the extent to which any
    factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
    statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
    should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of
    actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements
    contained in this
     10-K  and any
    other public statement made by Starbucks or its management may
    turn out to be incorrect. Starbucks expressly disclaims any
    obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise.

Starbucks
    financial condition and results of operations are sensitive to,
    and may be adversely affected by, a number of factors, many of
    which are largely outside the Company s
    control.   

The Company s operating results have been in the past and
    will continue to be subject to a number of factors, many of
    which are largely outside the Company s control. Any one or
    more of the factors set forth below could adversely impact
    Starbucks business, financial condition
     and/or 
    results of operations:

lower customer traffic or average value per transaction, which
    negatively impacts comparable store sales, net revenues,
    operating income, operating margins and earnings per share, due
    to:

the impact of initiatives by competitors and increased
    competition generally;

customers trading down to lower priced products within
    Starbucks,
     and/or 
    shifting to competitors with lower priced products;

lack of customer acceptance of new products or price increases
    necessary to cover costs of new products
     and/or 
    higher input costs;

unfavorable general economic conditions in the markets in which
    Starbucks operates that adversely affect consumer spending;

declines in general consumer demand for specialty coffee
    products; or

8

Table of Contents   

adverse impacts resulting from negative publicity regarding the
    Company s business practices or the health effects of
    consuming its products;

cost increases that are either wholly or partially beyond the
    Company s control, such as:

commodity costs for commodities that can only be partially
    hedged, such as fluid milk, and to a lesser extent, high quality
     arabica  coffee (See also the discussion under
     Product Supply  in Item 1);

labor costs such as increased health care costs, general market
    wage levels and workers  compensation insurance costs;

litigation against Starbucks, particularly class action
    litigation;

construction costs associated with new store openings; or

information technology costs and other logistical resources
    necessary to maintain and support the global growth of the
    Company s business;

delays in store openings for reasons beyond the Company s
    control, or a lack of desirable real estate locations available
    for lease at reasonable rates, either of which could keep the
    Company from meeting annual store opening targets and, in turn,
    negatively impact net revenues, operating income and earnings
    per share;

any material interruption in the Company s supply chain
    beyond its control, such as material interruption of roasted
    coffee supply due to the casualty loss of any of the
    Company s roasting plants or the failures of third-party
    suppliers, or interruptions in service by common carriers that
    ship goods within the Company s distribution channels, or
    trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or quotas,
    embargoes or customs restrictions; and

the impact on Starbucks business of factors such as labor
    discord, war, terrorism (including incidents targeting
    Starbucks), political instability in certain markets and natural
    disasters.

The
    Company may not be successful in implementing important
    strategic initiatives, which may have a material adverse impact
    on its business and financial results.   

There is no assurance that the Company will be able to implement
    important strategic initiatives in accordance with its
    expectations, which may result in a material adverse impact on
    the Company s business and financial results. These
    strategic initiatives are designed to drive long-term
    shareholder value and improve Starbucks results of operations,
    and include:

ongoing initiatives to improve the current state of the business
    by refocusing on the customer experience in the stores, new
    products and store design elements, and new training and tools
    for the Company s store partners to help them give
    customers a superior experience;

balancing disciplined global store growth while meeting target
    store-level unit economics in a given market;

executing a multi-channel advertising and marketing campaign to
    effectively communicate the Company s message directly to
    Starbucks consumers and partners; and

focusing on relevant innovation and profitable growth platforms,
    such as the recent introduction of Starbucks soluble coffee, VIA.

Economic
    conditions in the US and certain International markets could
    adversely affect the Company s business and financial
    results.   

As a retailer that is dependent upon consumer discretionary
    spending, the Company s results of operations are sensitive
    to changes in macro-economic conditions. Starbucks customers may
    have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job
    losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and
    falling home prices. Any resulting decreases in customer traffic
    or average value per transaction will negatively impact the
    Company s

9

Table of Contents   

financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales
    de-leveraging which creates downward pressure on margins. There
    is also a risk that if negative economic conditions persist for
    a long period of time, consumers may make long-lasting changes
    to their discretionary purchasing behavior, including less
    frequent discretionary purchases on a more permanent basis.

Failure
    to meet market expectations for Starbucks financial performance
    will likely adversely affect the market price and volatility of
    Starbucks stock.   

The Company s failure to meet market expectations going
    forward, particularly with respect to operating margins,
    earnings per share, comparable store sales, and net revenues,
    will likely result in a decline
     and/or 
    increased volatility in the market price of Starbucks stock.

Starbucks
    is highly dependent on the financial performance of its US
    operating segment.   

The Company s financial performance is highly dependent on
    its US operating segment, which comprised approximately
    three-quarters of consolidated total net revenues in fiscal
    2009. The Company continued to experience negative traffic in
    its US stores in fiscal 2009, which adversely affected the
    operating results of the US segment and the Company as a whole.
    Although the US segment s operating results improved in
    fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 due to the Company s
    restructuring efforts, if improvements in its financial
    performance do not continue, the Company s business and
    financial results will continue to be adversely affected.

Starbucks
    is increasingly dependent on the success of its International
    operating segment in order to achieve its growth
    targets.   

The Company s future growth increasingly depends on the
    growth and sustained profitability of its International
    operating segment. Some or all of the Company s
    International market business units ( MBUs ), which
    Starbucks generally defines by the countries or regions in which
    they operate, may not be successful in their operations or in
    achieving expected growth, which ultimately requires achieving
    consistent, stable net revenues and earnings. The performance of
    the International operating segment may be adversely affected by
    economic downturns in one or more of the Company s large
    MBUs. Additionally, some factors that will be critical to the
    success of International MBUs are different than those affecting
    the Company s US stores and licensees. Tastes naturally
    vary by region, and consumers in new international markets into
    which Starbucks and its licensees expand may not embrace
    Starbucks products to the same extent as consumers in the
    Company s existing markets. Occupancy costs and store
    operating expenses are also sometimes higher internationally
    than in the US due to higher rents for prime store locations or
    costs of compliance with country-specific regulatory
    requirements. Because many of the Company s International
    operations are in an early phase of development, operating
    expenses as a percentage of related revenues are often higher
    compared to US operations. The Company s International
    operations are also subject to additional inherent risks of
    conducting business abroad, such as:

foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;

changes or uncertainties in economic, legal, regulatory, social
    and political conditions in the Company s markets;

interpretation and application of laws and regulations;

restrictive actions of foreign or US governmental authorities
    affecting trade and foreign investment, including protective
    measures such as export and customs duties and tariffs and
    restrictions on the level of foreign ownership;

import or other business licensing requirements;

the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights;

limitations on the repatriation of funds and foreign currency
    exchange restrictions;

10

Table of Contents   

in developing economies, the growth rate in the portion of the
    population achieving targeted levels of disposable income may
    not be as fast as the Company forecasts;

difficulty in staffing, developing and managing foreign
    operations, including ensuring the consistency of product
    quality and service, due to distance, language and cultural
    differences; and

local laws that make it more expensive and complex to negotiate
    with, retain or terminate employees.

Moreover, many of the foregoing risks are particularly acute in
    developing countries, which are important to the Company s
    long-term growth prospects.

Starbucks
    International operating segment is highly dependent on the
    financial performance of its Canada, Japan and UK
    market.   

Starbucks Canada, Japan and UK markets account for a significant
    portion of the net revenues and profit contribution of the
    Company s International operating segment. Any significant
    decline in the financial performance of one of these key markets
    may have a material adverse impact on the results of operations
    of the entire International operating segment, if not partially
    or fully offset by positive financial performance from the other
    two major markets.

Starbucks
    faces intense competition in the specialty coffee market, which
    could lead to reduced profitability.   

A description of the general competitive conditions in which
    Starbucks operates appears under  Competition  in
    Item 1. In the US, the continued focus by one or more large
    competitors in the quick-service restaurant sector on selling
    high-quality specialty coffee beverages at a low cost has
    attracted Starbucks customers and could, if the numbers become
    large enough, adversely affect the Company s sales and
    results of operations. Similarly, continued competition from
    well-established competitors in international markets could
    hinder growth and adversely affect the Company s sales and
    results of operations in those markets. The Company faces
    increased competition from larger well-known competitors which
    have greater resources. Increasing competition from the US
    packaged coffee and tea and
     ready-to-drink 
    coffee beverage markets could adversely affect the profitability
    of the CPG segment and the Company s results of operations.
    Given its premium brand, Starbucks may be impacted more severely
    than its competitors by customers trading down to lower priced
    coffee beverages and related products.

A
    regional or global health pandemic could severely affect
    Starbucks business.   

A health pandemic is a disease outbreak that spreads rapidly and
    widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or
    population at the same time. If a regional or global health
    pandemic were to occur, depending upon its duration and
    severity, the Company s business could be severely
    affected. Starbucks has positioned itself as a third place
    between home and work where people can gather together for human
    connection. Customers might avoid public gathering places in the
    event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national
    governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or
    delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health
    pandemic might also adversely impact the Company s business
    by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials
    and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing
    shortages in its stores. The impact of a health pandemic on
    Starbucks might be disproportionately greater than on other
    companies that depend less on the gathering of people together
    for the sale, use or license of their products and services.

The
    Company s success depends substantially on the value of the
    Starbucks brand.   

Starbucks believes it has built an excellent reputation globally
    for the quality of its products, for delivery of a consistently
    positive consumer experience and for its corporate social
    responsibility programs. The Starbucks brand has been highly
    rated in several global brand value studies. To be successful in
    the future, particularly outside of US, where the Starbucks
    brand is less well-known, management believes it must preserve,
    grow and leverage the value of the Starbucks brand across its
    sales channels. Brand value is based in part on consumer
    perceptions as to a variety of subjective qualities. Even
    isolated business incidents that erode consumer trust,
    particularly if the incidents

11

Table of Contents   

receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, can
    significantly reduce brand value. Consumer demand for the
    Company s products and its brand equity could diminish
    significantly if Starbucks fails to preserve the quality of its
    products, is perceived to act in an unethical or socially
    irresponsible manner or fails to deliver a consistently positive
    consumer experience in each of its markets.

The
    Company s business depends in large part on the success of
    its business partners and suppliers, and the Company s
    brand and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third
    parties that are outside of the Company s
    control.   

The Company s business strategy, including its plans for
    new stores, foodservice, branded products and other initiatives,
    relies significantly on a variety of licensee and partnership
    relationships, particularly in its International markets.
    Licensees are often authorized to use the Starbucks logo and
    provide Starbucks-branded beverages, food and other products
    directly to customers. The Company provides training and support
    to, and monitors the operations of, these business partners, but
    the product quality and service they deliver to Starbucks
    customers may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the
    Company s control, including financial pressures.
    Management believes customers expect the same quality of
    products and service from the Company s licensees as they
    do from Starbucks and the Company strives to ensure customers
    have the same experience whether they visit a Company-operated
    or licensed store. Any shortcoming of a Starbucks business
    partner, particularly an issue affecting the quality of the
    service experience or the safety of beverages or food, may be
    attributed by customers to Starbucks, thus damaging the
    Company s reputation and brand value and potentially
    affecting the results of operations.

The Company s products and in particular, its coffee and
    tea products, are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and
    international vendors. The Company relies on international
    vendors to provide high quality product that comply with
    applicable laws. The Company s ability to find qualified
    vendors who meet our standards and supply products in a timely
    and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with
    respect to goods sourced from outside the US. These issues could
    negatively impact the Company s business and profitability.

The
    loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting and retaining
    qualified personnel could jeopardize the Company s ability
    to meet its financial targets.   

The Company s success depends substantially on the
    contributions and abilities of key executives and other
    employees, and on its ability to recruit and retain high quality
    employees to work in and manage Starbucks stores. Starbucks must
    continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other
    employees sufficient to maintain its current business and
    support its projected growth. A loss of key employees or a
    significant shortage of high quality store employees could
    jeopardize the Company s ability to meet its financial
    targets.

Effectively
    managing the Company s growth is challenging.   

Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as
    Starbucks expands into new markets internationally, where it
    must balance the need for flexibility and a degree of autonomy
    for local management against the need for consistency with the
    Company s goals, philosophy and standards. Growth can make
    it increasingly difficult to ensure a consistent supply of high
    quality raw materials, to locate and hire sufficient numbers of
    key employees to meet the Company s financial targets, to
    maintain an effective system of internal controls for a globally
    dispersed enterprise and to train employees worldwide to deliver
    a consistently high quality product and customer experience.

Adverse
    public or medical opinions about the health effects of consuming
    the Company s products, as well as reports of incidents
    involving food-borne illnesses or food tampering, whether or not
    accurate, could harm its business.   

Some Starbucks products contain caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds, the health effects of which are the
    subject of increasing public scrutiny, including the suggestion
    that excessive consumption of caffeine, dairy products, sugar
    and other active compounds can lead to a variety of adverse
    health effects. There has also been greater public awareness
    that sedentary lifestyles, combined with excessive consumption
    of high-calorie foods, have led to a rapidly rising rate of
    obesity. Particularly in the US, there is increasing consumer
    awareness of health

12

Table of Contents   

risks, including obesity, due in part to increasing publicity
    and attention from health organizations, as well as increased
    consumer litigation based on alleged adverse health impacts of
    consumption of various food products. While Starbucks has a
    variety of healthier choice beverage and food items, including
    items that are low in caffeine and calories, an unfavorable
    report on the health effects of caffeine or other compounds
    present in the Company s products, or negative publicity or
    litigation arising from other health risks such as obesity,
    could significantly reduce the demand for the Company s
    beverages and food products.

Similarly, instances or reports, whether true or not, of unclean
    water supply, food-borne illnesses and food tampering have in
    the past severely injured the reputations of companies in the
    food processing, grocery and quick-service restaurant sectors
    and could in the future affect the Company as well. Any report
    linking Starbucks to the use of unclean water, food-borne
    illnesses or food tampering could damage its brand value,
    immediately and severely hurt sales of its beverages and food
    products, and possibly lead to product liability claims. Clean
    water is critical to the preparation of specialty coffee
    beverages. The Company s ability to ensure a clean water
    supply to its stores is limited, particularly in some
    International locations. If customers become ill from food-borne
    illnesses, the Company could also be forced to temporarily close
    some stores. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or
    food tampering, even those occurring solely at the restaurants
    or stores of competitors, could, by resulting in negative
    publicity about the foodservice industry, adversely affect
    Starbucks sales on a regional or global basis. A decrease in
    customer traffic as a result of these health concerns or
    negative publicity, or as a result of a temporary closure of any
    of the Company s stores, could materially harm the
    Company s business and results of operations.

Deterioration
    in operating performance could lead to increased leverage, which
    may harm the Company s financial condition and results of
    operations.   

Any reduction in cash flow relative to the level of the
    Company s financial obligations would result in an increase
    in leverage. Any increase in leverage could lead to
    deterioration in Starbucks credit ratings, which could limit the
    availability of additional financing and increase its cost of
    obtaining financing. In addition, an increase in leverage could
    raise the likelihood of a financial covenant breach which in
    turn could limit the Company s access to existing funding
    under its credit facility.

The Company s ability to satisfy its operating lease
    obligations and make payments of principal and interest on its
    indebtedness depends on its future performance. Should the
    Company experience deterioration in operating performance, it
    will have less cash flow available to meet these obligations. In
    addition, if such deterioration were to lead to the closure of
    underperforming stores, the Company would need to fund the costs
    of terminating store leases. If Starbucks is unable to generate
    sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to satisfy
    these financial obligations, it may be required to, among other
    things:

seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets;

refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness;

sell selected assets; or

reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures.

Such measures might not be sufficient to enable Starbucks to
    satisfy its financial obligations. In addition, any such
    financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available
    on economically favorable terms.

Starbucks
    relies heavily on information technology in its operations, and
    any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security
    failure of that technology could harm the Company s ability
    to effectively operate its business.   

Starbucks relies heavily on information technology systems
    across its operations, including for management of its supply
    chain,
     point-of-sale 
    processing in its stores, and various other processes and
    transactions. The Company s ability to effectively manage
    its business and coordinate the production, distribution and
    sale of its products depends significantly on the reliability
    and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to
    operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or
    replacement systems, or a breach in security of these systems
    could

13

Table of Contents   

cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of the
    Company s operations, and significant capital investments
    could be required to remediate the problem.

Failure
    of the Company to comply with applicable laws and regulations
    could harm its business and financial results.   

Starbucks policies and procedures are designed to comply with
    all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by
    the SEC, NASDAQ, and foreign countries, as well as applicable
    labor laws. Additional legal and regulatory requirements,
    together with the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict
    with domestic laws, increase the complexity of the regulatory
    environment in which the Company operates and the related cost
    of compliance. Failure to comply with the various laws and
    regulations may result in damage to Starbucks reputation, civil
    and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of
    regulatory compliance and restatements of the Company s
    financial statements.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties   

Properties used by Starbucks in connection with its roasting and
    distribution operations:

The Company leases approximately 1.0 million square feet of
    office space in Seattle, Washington for corporate administrative
    purposes. Also in Seattle, Washington, the Company owns a
    205,000 square foot office building (previously occupied by
    the Company, but now leased to other parties) and an adjacent
    285,000 square foot office building, which is currently
    being marketed for lease.

As of September 27, 2009, Starbucks had more than 8,800
    Company-operated retail stores, almost all of which are leased.
    The Company also leases space in approximately 130 additional
    locations for regional, district and other administrative
    offices, training facilities and storage, not including certain
    seasonal retail storage locations.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

See discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of
    this Report.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during
    the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009.

14

Table of Contents   

Executive
    officers of the registrant  

Executive officers of the Company:

Name 

Age 

Position 

Howard Schultz

56

chairman, president and chief executive officer

Cliff Burrows

50

president, Starbucks Coffee US

Martin Coles

54

president, Starbucks Coffee International

John Culver

49

president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice

Michelle Gass

41

president, Seattle s Best Coffee

Arthur Rubinfeld

55

president, Global Development

Annie Young-Scrivner

40

chief marketing officer

Troy Alstead

46

executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
    administrative officer

Paula E. Boggs

50

executive vice president, general counsel and secretary

Peter D. Gibbons

48

executive vice president, Global Supply Chain Operations

Kalen Holmes

43

executive vice president, Partner Resources

Olden Lee

68

interim executive vice president, Partner Resources

Howard Schultz  is the founder of Starbucks and serves as
    the Company s chairman, president and chief executive
    officer. Mr. Schultz has served as chairman of the board
    since the Company s inception in 1985 and he resumed his
    role as president and chief executive officer in January 2008.
    From June 2000 to February 2005, Mr. Schultz held the title
    of chief global strategist. From November 1985 to June 2000, he
    served as chief executive officer. From November 1985 to June
    1994, Mr. Schultz also served as president.

Cliff Burrows  joined Starbucks in April 2001 and has
    served as president, Starbucks Coffee US since March 2008.
    Mr. Burrows served as president, Europe, Middle East and
    Africa (EMEA) from April 2006 to March 2008. He served as vice
    president and managing director, UK prior to April 2006. Prior
    to joining Starbucks, Mr. Burrows served in various
    management positions with Habitat Designs Limited, a furniture
    and housewares retailer.

Martin P. Coles  joined Starbucks in April 2004 as
    president, Starbucks Coffee International, and, in July 2008,
    reassumed this role, after having served as chief operating
    officer from September 2007 to July 2008. Prior to joining
    Starbucks, Mr. Coles served as an executive vice president
    of Reebok International, Ltd. a sports and fitness products
    company, from December 2001 to February 2004. Prior to joining
    Reebok International, Ltd., Mr. Coles held several
    executive level management sales and operations positions with
    NIKE Inc., Letsbuyit.com and Gateway, Inc.

John Culver  joined Starbucks in August 2002 and has
    served as president, Global Consumer Products and Foodservice
    since September 2009. Mr. Culver served as executive vice
    president; president, Global Consumer Products, Foodservice and
    Seattle s Best Coffee from February 2009 to September 2009.
    He previously served as senior vice president; president,
    Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific from January 2007 to February
    2009, and vice president; general manager, Foodservice from
    August 2002 to January 2007.

Michelle Gass  joined Starbucks in 1996 and has served as
    the Company s president, Seattle s Best Coffee since
    September 2009. Ms. Gass served as senior vice president,
    Marketing and Category from July 2008 to November 2008, and then
    as executive vice president, Marketing and Category from
    December 2008 to September 2009. Ms. Gass previously served
    as senior vice president, Global Strategy, Office of the ceo
    from January 2008 to July 2008, senior vice president, Global
    Product and Brand from August 2007 to January 2008, senior vice
    president, and U.S. Category Management from May 2004 to
    August 2007. Ms. Gass served in a number of other positions
    with Starbucks prior to 2004.

15

Table of Contents   

Arthur Rubinfeld  rejoined Starbucks in February 2008 as
    president, Global Development. Mr. Rubinfeld also serves as
    president of AIRVISION LLC, an advisory firm specializing in
    brand positioning that he founded in June 2002. From March 2006
    to February 2008, Mr. Rubinfeld served as executive vice
    president, Corporate Strategy and chief development officer at
    Potbelly Sandwich Works. Prior to 2002, Mr. Rubinfeld held
    several positions in Store Development at Starbucks.

Annie Young-Scrivner  joined Starbucks in September 2009
    as chief marketing officer. Prior to joining Starbucks,
    Ms. Young-Scrivner served as Chief Marketing Officer and
    Vice President of Sales for Quaker Foods and Snacks, a division
    of PepsiCo, Inc. From October 2006 to November 2008, she served
    as Region President of PepsiCo Foods for Greater China. From
    2005 to 2006, Ms. Young-Scrivner served as Vice President
    of Sales for PepsiCo Beverages in Greater China. She also served
    in a number of other leadership roles at PepsiCo prior to 2005.

Troy Alstead  joined Starbucks in 1992 and has served as
    executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
    administrative officer since November 2008. Mr. Alstead
    previously served as chief operating officer, Starbucks Greater
    China from April 2008 to October 2008, senior vice president,
    Global Finance and Business Operations from August 2007 to April
    2008, and senior vice president, Corporate Finance from
    September 2004 to August 2007. Mr. Alstead served in a
    number of other senior positions with Starbucks prior to 2004.

Paula E. Boggs  joined Starbucks in September 2002 as
    executive vice president, general counsel and secretary. Prior
    to joining Starbucks, Ms. Boggs served as vice president,
    legal, for products, operations and information technology at
    Dell Computer Corporation from 1997 to 2002. From 1995 to 1997,
    Ms. Boggs was a partner with the law firm of Preston
    Gates   Ellis (now K L Gates). Ms. Boggs
    served in several roles at the Pentagon, White House and US
    Department of Justice between 1984 and 1995.

Peter D. Gibbons  joined Starbucks in February 2007 and
    has served as executive vice president, Global Supply Chain
    Operations since July 2008. From February 2007 to July 2008,
    Mr. Gibbons served as senior vice president, Global
    Manufacturing Operations. From March 1999 to February 2007,
    Mr. Gibbons was executive vice president, Supply Chain, of
    The Glidden Company, a subsidiary of ICI Americas, Inc.

Kalen Holmes  joined Starbucks in November 2009 as
    executive vice president, Partner Resources. Prior to joining
    Starbucks, Ms. Holmes served as HR General Manager for the
    Entertainment and Devices division at Microsoft Corporation, a
    worldwide provider of software, services and solutions, from
    December 2007 to November 2009. From December 2005 to December
    2007, Ms. Holmes was HR General Manager for
    Microsoft s Server and Tools Division. From September 2003
    to December 2005, she served as HR General Manager for
    Microsoft s Corporate Staff business unit. Prior to 2003,
    Ms. Holmes served as an HR leader at companies such as
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, PepsiCo, Inc., Enron Corporation,
    pcOrder.com, Inc., and Trilogy Inc., managing multiple
    geographies and diverse business units.

Olden Lee  has served as interim executive vice president,
    Partner Resources since April 2009. Mr. Lee has been a
    Starbucks director since June 2003. Mr. Lee undertook the
    role of interim head of Partner Resources while the Company
    searched for an executive vice president, Partner Resources.
    Mr. Lee will continue with the Company on an interim basis
    to assist Ms. Holmes and ensure a smooth transition. Prior
    to serving in his current role, Mr. Lee worked with
    PepsiCo, Inc. for 28 years in a variety of positions,
    including serving as senior vice president of human resources of
    its Taco Bell division and senior vice president and chief
    personnel officer of its KFC division.

There are no family relationships among any directors or
    executive officers of the Company.

16

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder
    Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

SHAREHOLDER
    INFORMATION  

MARKET
    INFORMATION AND DIVIDEND POLICY  

The Company s common stock is traded on NASDAQ, under the
    symbol  SBUX. 

Quarterly high and low closing sale prices per share of the
    Company s common stock as reported by NASDAQ for each
    quarter during the last two fiscal years:

As of November 13, 2009, the Company had approximately
    21,600 shareholders of record. This does not include
    persons whose stock is in nominee or  street name 
    accounts through brokers.

Starbucks has never paid any dividends on its common stock. Any
    future decision to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion
    of the Company s Board of Directors and will be dependent
    on the Company s operating performance, financial
    condition, capital expenditure requirements, and other such
    factors that the Board of Directors considers relevant.

ISSUER
    PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  

The following table provides information regarding repurchases
    by the Company of its common stock during the 13-week period
    ended September 27, 2009:

(1)  

Monthly information is presented by reference to the
    Company s fiscal months during the fourth quarter of fiscal
    2009. 

(2)  

These amounts represent shares surrendered to the Company to pay
    the exercise price and/or to satisfy tax withholding obligations
    in connection with stock swap exercises of employee stock
    options. 

(3)  

The Company s share repurchase program is conducted under
    authorizations made from time to time by the Company s
    Board of Directors. The Board of Directors authorized the
    repurchase of 25 million shares of common stock (publicly
    announced on May 3, 2007) and later authorized the
    repurchase of up to five million additional shares (publicly
    announced on January 30, 2008). Neither of these
    authorizations has an expiration date. 

17

Table of Contents   

Performance
    Comparison Graph  

The following graph depicts the Company s total return to
    shareholders from October 3, 2004 through
    September 27, 2009, relative to the performance of the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite
    Index, and the Standard   Poor s 500 Consumer
    Discretionary Sector, a peer group that includes Starbucks. All
    indices shown in the graph have been reset to a base of 100 as
    of October 3, 2004, and assume an investment of $100 on
    that date and the reinvestment of dividends paid since that
    date. Starbucks has never paid a dividend on its common stock.
    The stock price performance shown in the graph is not
    necessarily indicative of future price performance.

18

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

In
    millions, except earnings per share and store
    information  

The following selected financial data are derived from the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company. The data below
    should be read in conjunction with  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations,   Risk Factors,  and the
    Company s consolidated financial statements and notes.

19

Table of Contents   

20

Table of Contents   

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

General  

Starbucks Corporation s fiscal year ends on the Sunday
    closest to September 30. The fiscal years ended on
    September 27, 2009, September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007 all included 52 weeks. Starbucks
    2010 fiscal year will include 53 weeks, with the
    53 rd  week

    falling in its fourth fiscal quarter. All references to store
    counts, including data for new store openings, are reported net
    of related store closures, unless otherwise noted.

Overview  

Fiscal 2009 was a challenging year for Starbucks. The Company
    was confronted with extraordinary economic and operating
    challenges in addition to facing an increasingly competitive
    landscape. Although the global economy has shown some signs of
    improvement recently, management recognizes the difficult
    economic situation that many consumers are still facing and does
    not expect that to significantly change over the course of
    fiscal 2010. This challenging economic environment has strained
    consumer discretionary spending in the US and internationally,
    which in turn has impacted Company revenues, comparable store
    sales, operating income and operating margins. Starbucks
    responded to this difficult environment with a more disciplined
    focus on operations and the introduction of initiatives to
    permanently improve the Company s cost structure. The
    result is an underlying business model that is less reliant on
    high revenue growth to drive profitability, and that still
    preserves the fundamental strengths and values of the Starbucks
    brand. The primary initiatives in this strategy include
    rationalizing the global Company-operated store portfolio,
    right-sizing the non-retail support organization, and reducing
    the Company s cost structure, while renewing the focus on
    service excellence in the stores and delivering relevant
    innovation.

Starbucks actions to rationalize its global store portfolio have
    included the planned closure of nearly 1,000 Company-operated
    stores globally. At the end of fiscal 2009, nearly all of the
    approximately 800 US Company-operated stores, 61 stores in
    Australia and 41 Company-operated stores in other International
    markets had been closed. The remaining International store
    closures are expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2010.

Initiatives targeting reductions in the Company s cost
    structure in fiscal 2009 proceeded as planned, with full-year
    costs of $580 million removed from the Company s cost
    structure. These targeted cost reductions and associated
    operational efficiency efforts, along with a more profitable
    Company-operated store base, have moved Starbucks toward a more
    sustainable business model, while preserving the fundamental
    strengths and values of the brand. The operational efficiency
    efforts are primarily focused on store level execution and
    include improved staffing models and better management of waste
    in coffee, dairy and food.

Starbucks actions to improve the customer experience have
    resulted in a more focused effort toward in-store offerings, and
    simplifying the demands on store partners (employees), while
    concurrently raising already-high standards for beverage and
    food offerings, customer service and the overall in-store
    experience. The effects of these efforts have already been seen
    in the Company s improved customer satisfaction scores.

Starbucks has a renewed focus on relevant product innovation and
    the disciplined expansion and leveraging of its existing
    products and sales channels. For example, Starbucks
    VIA  tm  

    Ready Brew coffee was launched in fiscal 2009 and is designed to
    capture a significant share of both the $21 billion global
    instant coffee category and the single-serve market. The Company
    intends to drive sales within the retail store base and CPG
    channels, both in the US and internationally.

The Company continues to maintain a solid financial foundation,
    with no short term debt outstanding at the end of fiscal 2009
    and with cash and liquid investments totaling more than
    $650 million. This solid financial position and continued
    strong cash flow generation have provided Starbucks with the
    financial flexibility to implement its restructuring efforts as
    well as make ongoing investments in its core business.

Fiscal
    2010   The View Ahead   

For fiscal 2010, the Company expects revenues to grow in the
     low-to-mid 
    single digits compared to fiscal 2009, driven by modestly
    positive comparable store sales, a
    53 rd 

    fiscal week, and approximately 100 planned net new

21

Table of Contents   

stores in the US and approximately 200 net new stores in
    International markets. Both the US and International net new
    additions are expected to be primarily licensed stores.

Given these revenue expectations, combined with the
    Company s reduced cost structure, in-store operating
    efficiencies, and lower restructuring charges, Starbucks
    currently expects significant improvement in its consolidated
    operating margin in fiscal 2010. Operating cash flow for fiscal
    2010 is currently expected to reach approximately
    $1.4 billion and capital expenditures are expected to range
    from $500 million to $550 million.

Operating
    Segment Overview   

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments: US,
    International and CPG. The US foodservice business, which was
    previously reported in the US segment, is now reported in the
    CPG segment, as a result of internal management realignments
    within the US and CPG businesses. Segment information for all
    prior periods presented has been revised to reflect this change.

The US and International segments both include Company-operated
    retail stores and licensed retail stores. Licensed stores
    frequently have a higher operating margin than Company-operated
    stores. Under the licensed model, Starbucks receives a reduced
    share of the total store revenues, but this is more than offset
    by the reduction in its share of costs as these are primarily
    borne by the licensee. The International segment has a higher
    relative share of licensed stores versus Company-operated
    compared to the US segment; however, the US segment has been
    operating significantly longer than the International segment
    and has developed deeper awareness of, and attachment to, the
    Starbucks brand and stores among its customer base. As a result,
    the more mature US segment has significantly more stores, and
    higher total revenues than the International segment. Average
    sales per store are also higher in the US due to various factors
    including length of time in market and local income levels.
    Further, certain market costs, particularly occupancy costs, are
    lower in the US segment compared to the average for the
    International segment, which comprises a more diverse group of
    operations. As a result of the relative strength of the brand in
    the US segment, the number of stores, the higher unit volumes,
    and the lower market costs, the US segment, despite its higher
    relative percentage of Company-operated stores, has a higher
    operating margin, excluding restructuring costs, than the
    less-developed International segment.

The Company s International store base continues to expand
    and Starbucks has been focusing on achieving sustainable growth
    from established international markets while at the same time
    investing in emerging markets, such as China, Brazil and Russia.
    The Company s newer international markets require a more
    extensive support organization, relative to the current levels
    of revenue and operating income.

The CPG segment includes packaged coffee and tea, and other
    branded products operations worldwide, and the US foodservice
    business. For the packaged coffee and tea and branded products,
    Starbucks operates primarily through licensing arrangements and
    joint ventures with large consumer products business partners,
    most significantly with Kraft for distribution of packaged
    coffees and teas, and The North American Coffee Partnership with
    the Pepsi-Cola Company for manufacturing and distribution of
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages. This operating model allows the CPG segment to
    leverage the business partners  existing infrastructures
    and to extend the Starbucks brand in an efficient way. Most of
    the customer revenues from the packaged coffee and
     ready-to-drink 
    products are recognized as revenues by the licensed or joint
    venture business partner, not by the CPG segment. Royalties and
    payments from our licensing agreements are recorded under
    licensing revenue, and the proportionate share of the results of
    the Company s joint ventures are included, on a net basis,
    in Income from equity investees on the consolidated statements
    of earnings. The US foodservice business sells coffee and other
    related products to institutional foodservice companies with the
    majority of its sales through national broadline distribution
    networks. The CPG segment reflects relatively lower revenues, a
    modest cost structure, and a resulting higher operating margin,
    compared to the Company s other two reporting segments,
    which consist primarily of retail stores.

Expenses pertaining to corporate administrative functions that
    support the operating segments but are not specifically
    attributable to or managed by any segment are not included in
    the reported financial results of the operating segments. These
    unallocated corporate expenses include certain general and
    administrative expenses, related depreciation and amortization
    expenses, corporate restructuring charges and amounts included
    in Net interest income and other and Interest expense on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

22

Table of Contents   

Acquisitions  

See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in
    this  10-K. 

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS   FISCAL 2009 COMPARED TO FISCAL
    2008  

Financial
    Highlights  

Consolidated operating income was $562 million for fiscal
    2009 compared to $504 million in fiscal 2008, and operating
    margin improved to 5.7% compared to 4.9% in fiscal 2008. Cost
    reduction initiatives and related operational efficiency efforts
    contributed significantly to the margin improvement, offset in
    part by higher restructuring charges incurred in fiscal 2009
    compared to fiscal 2008 as Starbucks continued its work to
    rationalize its global store portfolio and support organization.

EPS for fiscal 2009 was $0.52, compared to EPS of $0.43 reported
    in fiscal 2008. Restructuring charges impacted EPS by
    approximately $0.28 per share in fiscal 2009 and restructuring
    and other transformation costs impacted EPS by approximately
    $0.28 in fiscal 2008.

Cash flow from operations was $1.4 billion in fiscal 2009
    compared to $1.3 billion in fiscal 2008, while capital
    expenditures declined to $446 million in fiscal 2009 from
    $985 million in fiscal 2008. Available operating cash flow
    during fiscal 2009 was primarily used to reduce short-term
    borrowings to a zero balance in fiscal 2009, down from
    $713 million at the beginning of the fiscal year.

The Company realized approximately $580 million in
    reductions to its cost structure in fiscal 2009, with the
    initiatives focused on store closures, headcount reductions,
    in-store efficiencies and supply chain improvements.

Consolidated results of operations (in millions): 

Company-operated retail revenues decreased from fiscal 2008,
    primarily attributable to a 6% decline in comparable store
    sales, comprised of a 4% decline in transactions and a 2%
    decline in the average value per transaction. Foreign currency
    translation also contributed to the decline with the effects of
    a stronger US dollar relative to the British pound and Canadian
    dollar. The weakness in consolidated comparable store sales was
    driven by the US segment, with a comparable store sales decline
    of 6% for the year. The International segment experienced a 2%
    decline in comparable store sales.

The Company derived 16% of total net revenues from channels
    outside the Company-operated retail stores, collectively known
    as specialty operations. The decrease in Foodservice and other
    revenue was primarily due to the softness in the hospitality
    industry.

23

Table of Contents   

Cost of sales including occupancy costs decreased as a
    percentage of revenues primarily due to the implementation of
    in-store operational efficiencies designed to reduce product
    waste, and due to lower dairy costs in the US, partially offset
    by higher coffee costs.

Store operating expenses as a percentage of Company-operated
    retail revenues decreased primarily due to reduced headcount and
    spending in the regional support organization as a result of
    Starbucks restructuring efforts, and the effect of initiatives
    to improve store labor efficiencies.

Restructuring charges include lease exit and related costs
    associated with the actions to rationalize the Company s
    global store portfolio and reduce the global cost structure. See
    Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further
    discussion.

Operating margin expansion was primarily due to the improved
    labor efficiency and reduced product waste in Company-operated
    stores, partially offset by increased restructuring charges.

Net interest income and other increased due primarily to the
    impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain balance sheet
    amounts. Also contributing to the increase were lower unrealized
    market value losses on the Company s trading securities
    portfolio compared to fiscal 2008. As described in more detail
    in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the
    trading securities approximate a portion of the Company s
    liability under its Management Deferred Compensation Plan
    ( MDCP ). The MDCP liability also increases and
    decreases with changes in investment performance, with this
    offsetting impact recorded in General and administrative
    expenses on the consolidated statements of earnings. Interest
    expense decreased due to a lower average balance of short term

24

Table of Contents   

borrowings and lower average short term borrowing rates in
    fiscal 2009 compared to the prior year. At the end of fiscal
    2009, the Company had no short term debt.

The relatively low 2009 effective tax rate was primarily due to
    a tax benefit recognized for retroactive tax credits and an
    income tax credit related to the settlement of an employment tax
    audit in fiscal 2009. As a result of the audit settlement,
    approximately $17 million of expense was recorded in Store
    operating expenses, with an offsetting income tax credit and no
    impact to net earnings. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2010
    is expected to be in the range of 34% to 35%.

Operating
    Segments  

Segment information is prepared on the same basis that the
    Company s management reviews financial information for
    operational decision making purposes. Starbucks has three
    reportable operating segments: US, International and CPG.
    Unallocated Corporate includes expenses pertaining to corporate
    administrative functions that support the operating segments but
    are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment
    and are not included in the reported financial results of the
    operating segments. Operating income represents earnings before
    Net interest income and other, Interest expense and Income taxes.

The US foodservice business, which was previously reported in
    the US segment, is now reported in the CPG segment, as a result
    of internal management realignments within the US and CPG
    businesses. Segment information for all prior periods presented
    has been revised to reflect this change.

The following tables summarize the Company s results of
    operations by segment for fiscal 2009 and 2008 ( in
    millions ).

United
    States   

The US operating segment sells coffee and other beverages,
    complementary food, whole bean coffees, and coffee brewing
    equipment and merchandise primarily through Company-operated
    retail stores. Specialty operations within the US include
    licensed retail stores and other initiatives related to the
    Company s core business.

25

Table of Contents   

Company-operated retail revenues decreased year over year
    primarily due to a 6% decrease in comparable store sales,
    comprised of a 4% decrease in transactions, and a 2% decrease in
    average value per transaction.

Operating margin expanded primarily due to lower store operating
    expenses, lower cost of sales including occupancy costs, and
    lower other operating expenses as a percentage of total
    revenues. This improvement was primarily due to operational
    changes designed to improve labor efficiency and reduce product
    waste in Company-operated stores, and to lower non-store support
    costs. Partially offsetting the favorability were higher
    restructuring charges during the year. The Company incurred
    higher lease exit and related costs due to the higher number of
    actual store closures compared to the prior year period.

International   

The International operating segment sells coffee and other
    beverages, complementary food, whole bean coffees, and coffee
    brewing equipment and merchandise through Company-operated
    retail stores in Canada, the UK and several other markets.
    Specialty operations primarily include retail store licensing
    operations in nearly 40 other countries and foodservice
    accounts, primarily in Canada and the UK. The Company s
    International store base continues to expand and Starbucks
    expects to achieve a growing contribution from established areas
    of the business while at the same time investing in emerging
    markets and channels. Many of the Company s International
    operations are in early stages of development that require a
    more extensive support organization, relative to the current
    levels of revenue and operating income, than in the US. This
    continuing investment is part of the Company s long-term,
    balanced plan for profitable growth.

26

Table of Contents   

Company-operated retail revenues decreased primarily due to
    unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for
    the British pound and Canadian dollar. Partially offsetting the
    decrease were the net new store openings of 89 Company-operated
    stores.

Specialty revenues decreased primarily due to continued softness
    in the hospitality industry and unfavorable foreign currency
    exchange rates.

Operating margin decreased primarily due to higher restructuring
    charges and higher store operating expenses as a percentage of
    total revenues. Restructuring charges of $27.0 million
    recognized during the year had a 50 basis point impact on
    operating margin compared to the prior year, due to the
    previously announced store closures. Higher store operating
    expenses as of percentage of Company-operated retail revenues
    were driven by an increase in store impairment charges and a
    decline in sales leverage impacting salaries and benefits.
    Partially offsetting the decrease in operating margin were lower
    other operating expenses due to headcount reductions in the
    non-store support functions.

Global
    Consumer Products Group   

CPG s licensing revenue is from selling a selection of
    whole bean and ground coffees and premium
    Tazo   

    teas through licensing arrangements in US and international
    markets, and also producing and selling a variety of
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages through its joint ventures and marketing and
    distribution agreements. The foodservice revenue is from the US
    foodservice business, which sells coffee and other related
    products to institutional foodservice companies with the
    majority of its sales through national broadline distribution
    networks.

27

Table of Contents   

Total net revenues increased primarily due to higher revenues
    from packaged coffees, partially offset by lower foodservice
    revenues caused by continued softness in the hospitality
    industry.

Growth of operating margin was primarily due to lower other
    operating expenses in the foodservice business due to lower
    compensation costs and lower marketing expenses.

Unallocated
    Corporate   

Unallocated corporate expenses pertain to corporate
    administrative functions that support, but are not specifically
    attributable to the Company s operating segments.

Total unallocated corporate expenses increased primarily as a
    result of restructuring charges incurred for corporate office
    facilities that were no longer occupied by the Company due to
    the reduction in positions within the non-store support
    organization.

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS   FISCAL 2008 COMPARED TO FISCAL
    2007  

Consolidated
    results of operations (in millions):  

28

Table of Contents   

Net revenues for the fiscal year ended 2008 increased due to
    growth in both Company-operated retail revenues and specialty
    operations.

During fiscal 2008, Starbucks derived 84% of total net revenues
    from its Company-operated retail stores. Company-operated retail
    revenues increased, primarily attributable to the opening of 681
    new Company-operated retail stores in fiscal 2008, offset by
    negative 3% comparable store sales for the same period. Revenue
    growth was slower than in previous years due to a combination of
    declining comparable store sales and a decrease in the number of
    net new stores opened during fiscal 2008. The weakness in
    consolidated comparable store sales was driven by the US
    segment, which posted a comparable store sales decline of 5% for
    the year. Partially offsetting this was 2% comparable store
    sales growth in the International segment. Within fiscal 2008,
    consolidated quarterly revenue growth decelerated each quarter
    and comparable store sales declined each quarter, reflecting the
    ongoing challenging economic conditions in the US.

The Company derived the remaining 16% of total net revenues from
    specialty operations. Licensing revenues increased primarily due
    to higher product sales and royalty revenues from the opening of
    988 new licensed retail stores in fiscal 2008. The increase in
    Foodservice and other revenues was primarily driven by growth in
    new and existing accounts in the foodservice business in the US.

Since many of the Company s operating expenses are fixed in
    nature, the softness in US revenues during fiscal 2008 impacted
    nearly all consolidated and US segment operating expense line
    items when viewed as a percentage of sales, and pressured
    operating margins.

Cost of sales including occupancy costs increased primarily due
    to higher distribution costs and higher rent expenses as a
    percentage of revenues. Store operating expenses as a percentage
    of Company-operated retail revenues increased primarily due to
    higher payroll expenditures as a percentage of revenues coupled
    with impairment provisions in the US business, primarily driven
    by the slowdown in projected store openings. Depreciation and
    amortization expenses increased primarily due to the opening of
    681 new Company-operated retail stores in fiscal 2008. General
    and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to lower
    payroll-related expenses. Restructuring charges include asset
    impairment, lease exit and severance costs. These costs are
    associated with the closure of underperforming stores in the US
    and Australia, and the rationalization of the Company s
    leadership structure and non-store organization.

29

Table of Contents   

Operating margin compression was primarily due to lower
    revenues; in addition, restructuring charges accounted for
    approximately 40% of the decrease.

Net interest income and other decreased due primarily to
    unrealized market value losses on the Company s trading
    securities portfolio. The trading securities approximate a
    portion of the Company s liability under its MDCP plan. The
    MDCP liability also increases and decreases with changes in
    investment performance, with this offsetting impact recorded in
    General and administrative expenses on the consolidated
    statements of earnings. Interest expense increased due to the
    Company s issuance of $550 million of
     10-year 
    6.25% Senior Notes in August of fiscal 2007.

Income taxes for fiscal 2008 resulted in an effective tax rate
    of 31.3% compared to 36.3% for fiscal 2007. The lower rate was
    due to the higher proportion of income earned in foreign
    jurisdictions which have lower tax rates, as well as an increase
    in the domestic manufacturing deduction for manufacturing
    activities in the US.

United
    States   

30

Table of Contents   

Company-operated retail revenues increased primarily due to the
    opening of 445 new Company-operated retail stores in fiscal
    2008, partially offset by a 5% decrease in comparable store
    sales for fiscal 2008. The US Company-operated retail business
    continued to experience deteriorating trends in transactions
    during the year, driven by the US economic slowdown. Licensing
    revenues increased primarily due to higher product sales and
    royalty revenues as a result of opening 438 new licensed retail
    stores in fiscal 2008.

Operating margin contracted significantly primarily due to
    restructuring charges incurred and to softer revenues due to
    weak traffic, as well as higher cost of sales including
    occupancy costs and higher store operating expenses as a
    percentage of revenues. Restructuring charges of
    $210.9 million had a 280 basis point impact on the
    operating margin. The increase in cost of sales including
    occupancy costs was primarily due to higher distribution costs
    and higher rent expenses as a percentage of revenues. Higher
    store operating expenses was due to the softer sales, higher
    payroll-related expenditures, and charges from canceling future
    store sites and asset impairments.

International   

Company-operated retail revenues increased due to the opening of
    236 new Company-operated retail stores in fiscal 2008, favorable
    foreign currency exchange rates, primarily on the Canadian
    dollar, and comparable store sales growth of 2% for fiscal 2008.
    In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, Company-operated retail
    revenues grew at a slower rate
     year-over-year 
    of 12% and comparable store sales were flat compared to the same
    quarter in fiscal 2007, both driven by slowdowns in the UK and
    Canada, due to the weakening global economy.

31

Table of Contents   

Specialty revenues increased primarily due to higher product
    sales and royalty revenues from opening 550 new licensed retail
    stores in fiscal 2008.

Operating margin decreased primarily due to higher cost of sales
    including occupancy costs driven by continued expansion of lunch
    and warming programs in Canada, higher distribution costs, and
    higher building maintenance expense due to store renovation
    activities. In addition, restructuring charges of
    $19.2 million recognized in fiscal 2008 had a 90 basis
    point impact on the operating margin, nearly all due to the
    closure of 61 Company-operated stores in Australia.

Global
    Consumer Products Group   

32

Table of Contents   

Foodservice revenues increased primarily due to growth in new
    and existing foodservice accounts, and licensing revenue
    increased due to higher royalties and product sales in the
    international
     ready-to-drink 
    business and increased sales of US packaged tea and
    International club packaged coffee.

Growth of operating margin was primarily due to lower cost of
    sales as a percentage of revenues, partially offset by lower
    income from equity investees. Lower cost of sales was primarily
    due to a sales mix shift to more profitable products.

Unallocated
    Corporate   

Total unallocated corporate expenses remained relatively flat
    due to lower payroll-related expenditures, which were offset by
    restructuring charges incurred for corporate office facilities
    that were no longer occupied by the Company due to the reduction
    in positions within Starbucks leadership structure and non-store
    organization.

FINANCIAL
    CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

The Company s existing cash and liquid investments were
    $666.1 million and $322.3 million as of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008,
    respectively.

The Company manages its cash and liquid investments in order to
    internally fund operating needs and make scheduled interest and
    principal payments on its borrowings.

Included in the cash and liquid investment balances are the
    following:

A portfolio of unrestricted trading securities, designed to
    hedge the Company s liability under the MDCP. The value of
    this portfolio was $44.8 million and $49.5 million as
    of September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008,
    respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in
    market values of the underlying equity funds. See Note 3
    for further details.

Unrestricted cash and liquid securities held within the
    Company s wholly owned captive insurance company to fund
    claim payouts. The value of these unrestricted cash and liquid
    securities was approximately $11.8 million and
    $24.0 million as of September 27, 2009 and
    September 28, 2008, respectively.

33

Table of Contents   

As of September 27, 2009, the Company had
    $92.7 million invested in
     available-for-sale 
    securities. Included in
     available-for-sale 
    securities were $55.7 million of auction rate securities
    ( ARS ), compared with $59.8 million of ARS held
    as of September 28, 2008, with the decrease due to calls of
    individual securities. As described in more detail in
    Note 3, while the ongoing auction failures will limit the
    liquidity of these investments for some period of time, the
    Company does not believe the auction failures will materially
    impact its ability to fund its working capital needs, capital
    expenditures or other business requirements.

Credit rating agencies currently rate the Company s
    borrowings as follows:

Description 

Standard   Poor s 

Moody s 

Short-term debt

A-2

P-3

Senior unsecured long-term debt

BBB

Baa3

Outlook

Stable

Stable

On August 28, 2009, Standard and Poor s Ratings
    Services revised its outlook on the Company s credit
    ratings to stable from negative based on improved credit metrics
    and stabilizing performance. The rating agency also affirmed the
    BBB corporate credit rating on the Company and raised the
    short-term rating to
     A-2  from
     A-3  to
    conform with the stable rating outlook. As a result of the
    Moody s
     P-3 
    short-term rating issued in May 2009, commercial paper has
    become less liquid and more expensive than borrowing under the
    Company s credit facility. Consequently, the Company
    utilized its credit facility for almost all short-term borrowing
    needs subsequent to May 2009. In the latter half of the year the
    Company reduced its total short-term borrowings to a zero
    balance due to strong operating cash flows and lower capital
    spending on new Company-operated stores. Management is unlikely
    to make significant use of its commercial paper program until
    its Moody s short-term ratings improve.

Despite limited access to the commercial paper markets,
    management believes that cash flow from operations and its
    existing cash and liquid investments, supplemented as needed by
    the $1 billion in short-term borrowing capacity under the
    Company s revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to
    finance capital requirements for its core businesses for the
    foreseeable future, as well as to fund the cost of lease
    termination and related costs from the remaining international
    store closures. Significant new joint ventures, acquisitions
     and/or  other
    new business opportunities may require additional outside
    funding.

The Company s credit facility contains provisions requiring
    Starbucks to maintain compliance with certain covenants,
    including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. On June 8,
    2009, the credit facility was amended to more accurately reflect
    the parties  intent with respect to Amendment No. 4 to
    the credit facility. Amendment No. 5 to the credit facility
    did not impact the Company s borrowing terms, facility
    size, or covenant ratio, and was completed at minimal cost to
    the Company. As of September 27, 2009 and
    September 28, 2008, the Company was in compliance with each
    of these covenants.

The $550 million of
     10-year 
    6.25% Senior Notes, issued in fiscal 2007, also require
    Starbucks to maintain compliance with certain covenants that
    limit future liens and sale and leaseback transactions on
    certain material properties. As of September 27, 2009 and
    September 28, 2008, the Company was in compliance with each
    of these covenants.

The Company generated strong operating cash flow during the year
    ended September 27, 2009 and used its free cash flow to
    reduce its short-term borrowings from $713.0 million at the
    end of fiscal 2008 to a zero balance at the end of fiscal 2009
    and to increase the balance of its cash and liquid investments.

The Company expects to use its cash and liquid investments,
    including any borrowings under its credit facility and
    commercial paper program, to invest in its core businesses,
    including new beverage and product innovations, as well as other
    new business opportunities related to its core businesses. The
    Company may use its available cash resources to make
    proportionate capital contributions to its equity method and
    cost method investees. Any decisions to increase its ownership
    interest in its equity method investees or licensed operations
    will be driven by valuation and fit with the Company s
    ownership strategy and are likely to be infrequent.

Depending on market conditions and within the constraint of
    maintaining an appropriate capital structure, Starbucks may
    repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share
    repurchase program. Starbucks

34

Table of Contents   

did not repurchase any shares in fiscal 2009 under the
    Company s share repurchase program; however, the Company
    will continue to evaluate share repurchases and cash dividends
    in the future as a use for excess cash generated by the business.

Other than normal operating expenses, cash requirements for
    fiscal 2010 are expected to consist primarily of capital
    expenditures for remodeling and refurbishment of, and equipment
    upgrades for, existing Company-operated retail stores; systems
    and technology investments in the stores and in the support
    infrastructure; and new Company-operated retail stores. Total
    capital expenditures for fiscal 2010 are expected to range from
    $500 million to $550 million.

Cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion for
    fiscal 2009 compared to $1.3 billion for fiscal 2008. Cash
    used by investing activities for fiscal 2009 totaled
    $421.1 million compared to $1.1 billion in fiscal
    2008. The decrease was due to lower capital expenditures in
    fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 due to opening significantly
    fewer new Company-operated stores.

Cash used by financing activities for the year ended
    September 27, 2009 totaled $642.2 million, with net
    repayments of commercial paper and short-term borrowings under
    the credit facility totaling $713.1 million. As of
    September 27, 2009, a total of $14.1 million in
    letters of credit were outstanding under the credit facility,
    leaving $985.9 million of capacity available under the
    $1 billion combined commercial paper program and revolving
    credit facility.

The following table summarizes the Company s contractual
    obligations and borrowings as of September 27, 2009, and
    the timing and effect that such commitments are expected to have
    on the Company s liquidity and capital requirements in
    future periods ( in millions ):

(1)  

Income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions were excluded
    as the Company is not able to make a reasonably reliable
    estimate of the amount and period of related future payments. As
    of September 27, 2009, the Company had $49.1 million
    of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions. 

(2)  

Debt amounts include principal maturities and expected interest
    payments on the long-term debt. 

(3)  

Amounts include the direct lease obligations, excluding any
    taxes, insurance and other related expenses. 

(4)  

Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or
    services that are enforceable and legally binding on Starbucks
    and that specify all significant terms. Purchase obligations
    relate primarily to green coffee. 

(5)  

Other obligations include other long-term liabilities primarily
    consisting of asset retirement obligations, capital lease
    obligations and hedging instruments. 

Starbucks expects to fund these commitments primarily with
    operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business,
    as well as ongoing borrowings under the combined commercial
    paper program and revolving credit facility.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangement  

The Company s off-balance sheet arrangements relate to
    certain guarantees and are detailed in Note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements in this
     10-K. 

35

Table of Contents   

COMMODITY
    PRICES, AVAILABILITY AND GENERAL RISK CONDITIONS  

Commodity price risk represents the Company s primary
    market risk, generated by its purchases of green coffee and
    dairy products, among other things. The Company purchases,
    roasts and sells high-quality whole bean  arabica  coffee
    and related products and risk arises from the price volatility
    of green coffee. In addition to coffee, the Company also
    purchases significant amounts of dairy products to support the
    needs of its Company-operated retail stores. The price and
    availability of these commodities directly impacts the
    Company s results of operations and can be expected to
    impact its future results of operations. For additional details
    see Product Supply in Item 1, as well as Risk Factors in
    Item 1A of this
     10-K. 

FINANCIAL
    RISK MANAGEMENT  

Market risk is defined as the risk of losses due to changes in
    commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, equity
    security prices, and interest rates. The Company manages its
    exposure to various market-based risks according to an umbrella
    risk management policy. Under this policy, market-based risks
    are quantified and evaluated for potential mitigation
    strategies, such as entering into hedging transactions. The
    umbrella risk management policy governs the hedging instruments
    the business may use and limits the risk to net earnings. The
    Company also monitors and limits the amount of associated
    counterparty credit risk. Additionally, this policy restricts,
    among other things, the amount of market-based risk the Company
    will tolerate before implementing approved hedging strategies
    and prohibits speculative trading activity. In general, hedging
    instruments do not have maturities in excess of five years.

The sensitivity analyses disclosed below provide only a limited,
     point-in-time 
    view of the market risk of the financial instruments discussed.
    The actual impact of the respective underlying rates and price
    changes on the financial instruments may differ significantly
    from those shown in the sensitivity analyses.

Commodity
    Price Risk  

The Company purchases commodity inputs, including coffee, dairy
    products and diesel that are used in its operations and are
    subject to price fluctuations that impact its financial results.
    In addition to fixed-price contracts and
     price-to-be-fixed 
    contracts for coffee purchases, the Company has entered into
    commodity hedges to manage commodity price risk using financial
    derivative instruments. The Company performed a sensitivity
    analysis based on a 10% change in the underlying commodity
    prices of its commodity hedges, as of the end of fiscal 2009,
    and determined that such a change would not have a significant
    effect on the fair value of these instruments.

Foreign
    Currency Exchange Risk  

The majority of the Company s revenue, expense and capital
    purchasing activities are transacted in US dollars. However,
    because a portion of the Company s operations consists of
    activities outside of the US, the Company has transactions in
    other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar, British pound,
    euro, and Japanese yen. As a result, Starbucks may engage in
    transactions involving various derivative instruments to hedge
    revenues, inventory purchases, assets, and liabilities
    denominated in foreign currencies.

As of September 27, 2009, the Company had forward foreign
    exchange contracts that hedge portions of anticipated
    international revenue streams and inventory purchases. In
    addition, Starbucks had forward foreign exchange contracts that
    qualify as accounting hedges of its net investment in Starbucks
    Japan, as well as the Company s net investments in its
    Canada subsidiary, to minimize foreign currency exposure.

The Company also had forward foreign exchange contracts that are
    not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes
    (free standing derivatives), but which largely offset the
    financial impact of translating certain foreign currency
    denominated payables and receivables. Increases or decreases in
    the fair value of these hedges are generally offset by
    corresponding decreases or increases in the US dollar value of
    the Company s foreign currency denominated payables and
    receivables (i.e.  hedged items ) that would occur
    within the hedging period.

The following table summarizes the potential impact to the
    Company s future net earnings and other comprehensive
    income ( OCI ) from changes in the fair value of these
    derivative financial instruments due in turn to a change in the

36

Table of Contents   

value of the US dollar as compared to the level of foreign
    exchange rates. The information provided below relates only to
    the hedging instruments and does not represent the corresponding
    changes in the underlying hedged items ( in millions ):

September 27,
    2009    

Increase/(Decrease) to Net Earnings 

Increase/(Decrease) to OCI 

10% Increase in 

10% Decrease in 

10% Increase in 

10% Decrease in 

Underlying Rate 

Underlying Rate 

Underlying Rate 

Underlying Rate 

Foreign currency hedges

$

58

(58

)

13

(13

)

Equity
    Security Price Risk  

The Company has minimal exposure to price fluctuations on equity
    mutual funds and equity exchange-traded funds within its trading
    portfolio. The trading securities approximate a portion of the
    Company s liability under the MDCP. A corresponding
    liability is included in Accrued compensation and related costs
    on the consolidated balance sheets. These investments are
    recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses
    recognized in Net interest income and other in the consolidated
    statements of earnings. The offsetting changes in the MDCP
    liability are recorded in General and administrative expenses.
    The Company performed a sensitivity analysis based on a 10%
    change in the underlying equity prices of its investments as of
    the end of fiscal 2009, and determined that such a change would
    not have a significant effect on the fair value of these
    instruments.

Interest
    Rate Risk  

The Company utilizes short-term and long-term financing and may
    use interest rate hedges to manage the effect of interest rate
    changes on its existing debt as well as the anticipated issuance
    of new debt. At the end of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, the
    Company did not have any interest rate hedge agreements
    outstanding.

The following table summarizes the impact of a change in
    interest rates on the fair value of the Company s debt
     (in millions) :

September 27,
    2009    

The Company s
     available-for-sale 
    securities comprise a diversified portfolio consisting mainly of
    fixed income instruments. The primary objectives of these
    investments are to preserve capital and liquidity. As of
    September 27, 2009, the Company s long-term
     available-for-sale 
    securities included ARS. Please see Note 3 for further
    information.
     Available-for-sale 
    securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at
    fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported as a
    component of Accumulated other comprehensive income. The Company
    does not hedge the interest rate exposure on its
     available-for-sale 
    securities. The Company performed a sensitivity analysis based
    on a 100 basis point change in the underlying interest rate
    of its
     available-for-sale 
    securities as of the end of fiscal 2009, and determined that
    such a change would not have a significant effect on the fair
    value of these instruments.

APPLICATION
    OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Critical accounting policies are those that management believes
    are both most important to the portrayal of the Company s
    financial condition and results, and require management s
    most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a
    result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters
    that are inherently uncertain. Judgments and uncertainties
    affecting the application of those policies may result in
    materially different amounts being reported under different
    conditions or using different assumptions.

37

Table of Contents   

Starbucks considers its policies on asset impairment,
    stock-based compensation, operating leases, self insurance
    reserves and income taxes to be the most critical in
    understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing its
    consolidated financial statements.

Asset
    Impairment  

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values
    of long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of
    recoverability is performed by comparing the carrying values of
    the assets to projected future cash flows, in addition to other
    quantitative and qualitative analyses. For goodwill and other
    indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment tests are
    performed annually and more frequently if facts and
    circumstances indicate carrying values exceed estimated fair
    values and if indefinite useful lives are no longer appropriate
    for the Company s trademarks. Upon determination that the
    carrying values of such assets are in excess of their estimated
    fair values, the Company recognizes an impairment loss as a
    charge against current operations. Judgments made by the Company
    related to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and
    the ability of the Company to realize undiscounted cash flows in
    excess of the carrying amounts of such assets are affected by
    factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the
    assets, changes in economic conditions and changes in operating
    performance. As the Company assesses the ongoing expected cash
    flows and carrying amounts of its long-lived assets, these
    factors could cause the Company to realize material impairment
    charges.

Stock-based
    Compensation  

Starbucks accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance
    with fair value recognition provisions, under which the Company
    uses the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model which
    requires the input of subjective assumptions. These assumptions
    include estimating the length of time employees will retain
    their stock options before exercising them ( expected
    term ), the estimated volatility of the Company s
    common stock price over the expected term and the number of
    options that will ultimately not complete their vesting
    requirements. Changes in the subjective assumptions could
    materially affect the estimate of fair value of stock-based
    compensation; however based on an analysis using changes in
    certain assumptions that could be reasonably possible in the
    near term, management believes the effect on the expense
    recognized for fiscal 2009 would not have been material.

Operating
    Leases  

Starbucks leases retail stores, roasting and distribution
    facilities and office space under operating leases. The Company
    provides for an estimate of asset retirement obligation
    ( ARO ) expense at the lease inception date for
    operating leases with requirements to remove leasehold
    improvements at the end of the lease term. Estimating AROs
    involves subjective assumptions regarding both the amount and
    timing of actual future retirement costs. Future actual costs
    could differ significantly from amounts initially estimated. In
    addition, the large number of operating leases and the
    significant number of international markets in which the Company
    has operating leases adds administrative complexity to the
    calculation of ARO expense, as well as to the other technical
    accounting requirements of operating leases such as contingent
    rent. Estimating the cost of certain lease exit costs involves
    subjective assumptions, including the time it would take to
    sublease the leased location and the related potential sublease
    income. The estimated accruals for these costs could be
    significantly affected if future experience differs from that
    used in the initial estimate.

Self
    Insurance Reserves  

The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance
    mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance entity
    and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for the
    potential liabilities for certain risks, including workers 
    compensation, healthcare benefits, general liability, property
    insurance, and director and officers  liability insurance.
    Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the
    Company are not discounted and are estimated, in part, by
    considering historical claims experience, demographic factors,
    severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. The estimated
    accruals for these liabilities could be significantly affected
    if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions
    and historical trends.

38

Table of Contents   

Income
    Taxes  

Starbucks recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities based
    on the differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and accrues
    for uncertain tax positions. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
    are measured using current enacted tax rates in effect for the
    years in which those temporary differences are expected to
    reverse. Judgment is required in determining the provision for
    income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and
    liabilities. These include establishing a valuation allowance
    related to the ability to realize certain deferred tax assets.
    Accounting for uncertain tax positions requires significant
    judgments, including estimating the amount, timing and
    likelihood of ultimate settlement. Although the Company believes
    that its estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ
    from these estimates.

RECENT
    ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in this
     10-K. 

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the section entitled  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Commodity Prices, Availability and
    General Risk Conditions  and  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Financial Risk Management  in
    Item 7 of this Report.

39

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 
       
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 
     (In Millions, except earnings per
    share)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

40

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 
       
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
     (In millions, except per share data)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

41

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 
       
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
     (In millions)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

42

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 
       
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
     (In millions)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

43

Table of Contents   

STARBUCKS
    CORPORATION 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Fiscal
    Years ended September 27, 2009, September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007  

Note 1:    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Description
    of Business   

Starbucks Corporation (together with its subsidiaries,
     Starbucks  or the  Company ) purchases and
    roasts high-quality whole bean coffees and sells them, along
    with fresh, rich-brewed coffees, Italian-style espresso
    beverages, cold blended beverages, a variety of complementary
    food items, a selection of premium teas, and beverage-related
    accessories and equipment, primarily through its
    Company-operated retail stores. Starbucks also sells coffee and
    tea products and licenses its trademark through other channels
    such as licensed stores, and through certain of its licensees
    and equity investees, Starbucks produces and sells a variety of
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages. All channels outside the Company-operated retail
    stores are collectively known as specialty operations.
    Additional details on the nature of the Company s business
    are in Item 1 of this
     10-K. 

Starbucks has three reportable operating segments: United States
    ( US ), International and Global Consumer Products
    Group ( CPG ). See Note 18 for additional details.

Principles
    of Consolidation   

The consolidated financial statements reflect the financial
    position and operating results of Starbucks, including wholly
    owned subsidiaries and investees controlled by the Company.
    Investments in entities that the Company does not control, but
    has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating
    and financial policies, are accounted for under the equity
    method. Investments in entities in which Starbucks does not have
    the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for
    under the cost method. Intercompany transactions and balances
    have been eliminated.

Fiscal
    Year End   

Starbucks fiscal year ends on the Sunday closest to
    September 30. The fiscal years ended on September 27,
    2009, September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007 all
    included 52 weeks. Starbucks 2010 fiscal year will include
    53 weeks, with the
    53 rd  week

    falling in its fourth fiscal quarter.

Subsequent
    Events   

The Company evaluated subsequent events and transactions for
    potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements
    through November 20, 2009, the day the financial statements
    were issued.

Estimates
    and Assumptions   

Preparing financial statements in conformity with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of America
    ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses. Examples include, but are
    not limited to, estimates for asset and goodwill impairments,
    stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, and future asset
    retirement obligations; assumptions underlying self-insurance
    reserves; and the potential outcome of future tax consequences
    of events that have been recognized in the financial statements.
    Actual results and outcomes may differ from these estimates and
    assumptions.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents   

The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with a
    maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be
    cash equivalents. The Company maintains cash and cash equivalent
    balances with financial institutions that

44

Table of Contents   

exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced
    any losses related to these balances, and management believes
    its credit risk to be minimal.

Cash
    Management   

The Company s cash management system provides for the
    funding of all major bank disbursement accounts on a daily basis
    as checks are presented for payment. Under this system,
    outstanding checks are in excess of the cash balances at certain
    banks, which creates book overdrafts. Book overdrafts are
    presented as a current liability in Accounts payable on the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Short-term
    and Long-term Investments   

The Company s short-term and long-term investments consist
    primarily of investment grade debt securities, equity mutual
    funds, and equity exchange-traded funds, all of which are
    classified as
     available-for-sale 
    or trading. As of September 27, 2009, a substantial portion
    of the Company s
     available-for-sale 
    investments consisted of auction rate securities, as described
    in more detail in Note 3. Trading securities are recorded
    at fair value with unrealized holding gains and losses included
    in net earnings.
     Available-for-sale 
    securities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized holding
    gains and losses are recorded, net of tax, as a component of
    accumulated other comprehensive income.
     Available-for-sale 
    securities with remaining maturities of less than one year and
    those identified by management at time of purchase for funding
    operations in less than one year are classified as short term,
    and all other
     available-for-sale 
    securities are classified as long term. Unrealized losses are
    charged against net earnings when a decline in fair value is
    determined to be other than temporary. Management reviews
    several factors to determine whether a loss is other than
    temporary, such as the length and extent of the fair value
    decline, the financial condition and near term prospects of the
    issuer, and for equity investments, the Company s intent
    and ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient
    to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. For debt
    securities, management also evaluates whether the Company has
    the intent to sell or will likely be required to sell before its
    anticipated recovery. Realized gains and losses are accounted
    for on the specific identification method. Purchases and sales
    are recorded on a trade date basis.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments   

The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates
    fair value because of the short-term maturity of those
    instruments. The fair value of the Company s investments in
    marketable debt and equity securities, equity mutual funds and
    equity exchange-traded funds, is based upon the quoted market
    price on the last business day of the fiscal year. Where an
    observable quoted market price for a security does not exist,
    the Company estimates fair value using a variety of valuation
    methodologies. Such methodologies include comparing the security
    with securities of publicly traded companies in similar lines of
    business, applying revenue multiples to estimated future
    operating results and estimating discounted cash flows. See
    Note 3 and 7 for additional information and Note 5 for
    the methods used to measure fair value. The fair value of the
    Company s debt is estimated based on the quoted market
    prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates
    offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining
    maturities. The carrying value of short-term debt approximates
    fair value. The estimated fair value of Starbucks
    $550 million of 6.25% Senior Notes was approximately
    $591 million and $536 million as of September 27,
    2009 and September 28, 2008, respectively.

Derivative
    Instruments   

The Company manages its exposure to various risks within the
    consolidated financial statements according to an umbrella risk
    management policy. Under this policy, Starbucks may engage in
    transactions involving various derivative instruments, with
    maturities generally not longer than five years, to hedge
    interest rates, commodity prices, and foreign currency
    denominated revenues, purchases, assets and liabilities.

The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheets at
    fair value. For a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
    derivative s gain or loss is initially reported as a
    component of other comprehensive income ( OCI ) and

45

Table of Contents   

subsequently reclassified into net earnings when the hedged
    exposure affects net earnings. For a net investment hedge, the
    effective portion of the derivative s gain or loss is
    reported as a component of OCI.

Cash flow hedges related to anticipated transactions are
    designated and documented at the inception of each hedge by
    matching the terms of the contract to the underlying
    transaction. The Company classifies the cash flows from hedging
    transactions in the same categories as the cash flows from the
    respective hedged items. Once established, cash flow hedges are
    generally not removed until maturity unless an anticipated
    transaction is no longer likely to occur. For discontinued or
    dedesignated cash flow hedges, the related accumulated
    derivative gains or losses are recognized in Net interest income
    and other on the consolidated statements of earnings.

Forward contract effectiveness for cash flow hedges is
    calculated by comparing the fair value of the contract to the
    change in value of the anticipated transaction using forward
    rates on a monthly basis. For net investment hedges, the
     spot-to-spot 
    method is used to calculate effectiveness. Under this method,
    the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to
    the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is
    reported as a component of OCI. The remaining change in fair
    value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion) is
    reclassified into net earnings. Any ineffectiveness is
    recognized immediately in Net interest income and other on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

The Company also enters into certain foreign currency forward
    contracts and commodity swap and futures contracts that are not
    designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. These
    contracts are recorded at fair value, with the changes in fair
    value recognized in Net interest income and other on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

See Note 5 for additional information on the Company s
    fair value measurements related to derivative instruments.

Allowance
    for Doubtful Accounts   

Allowance for doubtful accounts is calculated based on
    historical experience, customer credit risk and application of
    the specific identification method. As of September 27,
    2009 and September 28, 2008, the allowance for doubtful
    accounts was $5.0 million and $4.5 million,
    respectively.

Inventories   

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (primarily moving
    average cost) or market. The Company records inventory reserves
    for obsolete and slow-moving items and for estimated shrinkage
    between physical inventory counts. Inventory reserves are based
    on inventory turnover trends, historical experience and
    application of the specific identification method. As of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, inventory
    reserves were $21.1 million and $25.5 million,
    respectively.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment   

Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property, plant and
    equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, is
    provided on the straight-line method over estimated useful
    lives, generally ranging from two to seven years for equipment
    and 30 to 40 years for buildings. Leasehold improvements
    are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives
    or the related lease life, generally 10 years. For leases
    with renewal periods at the Company s option, Starbucks
    generally uses the original lease term, excluding renewal option
    periods, to determine estimated useful lives. If failure to
    exercise a renewal option imposes an economic penalty to
    Starbucks, management may determine at the inception of the
    lease that renewal is reasonably assured and include the renewal
    option period in the determination of appropriate estimated
    useful lives. The portion of depreciation expense related to
    production and distribution facilities is included in Cost of
    sales including occupancy costs on the consolidated statements
    of earnings. The costs of repairs and maintenance are expensed
    when incurred, while expenditures for refurbishments and
    improvements that significantly add to the productive capacity
    or extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized. When
    assets are retired or sold, the asset cost and related
    accumulated depreciation are eliminated with any remaining gain
    or loss reflected in net earnings.

46

Table of Contents   

Goodwill   

The Company tests its goodwill for impairment on an annual
    basis, or more frequently if circumstances indicate reporting
    unit carrying values exceed their fair values. Fair value is
    estimated by projecting discounted cash flows from the reporting
    unit in addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses.
    If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied estimated
    fair value, an impairment charge to current operations is
    recorded to reduce the carrying value to the implied estimated
    fair value.

Starbucks conducted its annual test for its consolidated
    entities in the third fiscal quarter, resulting in
    $7 million of goodwill impairment in fiscal 2009 related to
    the US operating segment s Hawaii reporting unit, which is
    comprised of retail store operations. The current and future
    projected operating results for the Hawaii operations, which
    were acquired in fiscal 2006, were lower than originally
    anticipated due to the overall economic slowdown and its impact
    on the travel industry in particular, resulting in a partial
    impairment of the related goodwill. There was no impairment of
    goodwill in fiscal 2008 and 2007.

Other
    Intangible Assets   

Other intangible assets consist primarily of trademarks with
    indefinite lives which are tested for impairment annually or
    more frequently if indefinite useful lives are no longer
    appropriate. Definite-lived intangible assets, which mainly
    consist of contract-based patents and copyrights, are amortized
    over their estimated useful lives, and are tested for impairment
    when facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values
    may not be recoverable. For further information on other
    intangible assets, see Note 9. Based on the impairment
    tests performed there was no impairment of other intangible
    assets in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007.

Long-lived
    Assets   

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values
    of long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of
    recoverability is performed by comparing the carrying values of
    the assets to projected undiscounted future cash flows in
    addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. Upon
    indication that the carrying values of such assets may not be
    recoverable, the Company compares the fair value of long-lived
    assets to their carrying value and recognizes an impairment loss
    by a charge to net earnings for the excess of carrying value
    over fair value. The fair value of the assets is estimated using
    the discounted future cash flows of the assets. Property, plant
    and equipment assets are grouped at the lowest level for which
    there are identifiable cash flows when assessing impairment.
    Cash flows for retail assets are identified at the individual
    store level. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at
    the lower of their carrying amount, or fair value less estimated
    costs to sell.

The Company recognized net impairment and disposition losses of
    $224.4 million, $325.0 million and $26.0 million
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily due to
    underperforming Company-operated retail stores. The net losses
    in fiscal 2009 and 2008 include $129.2 million and
    $201.6 million, respectively, of asset impairments related
    to the US and International store closures and charges incurred
    for office facilities no longer occupied by the Company due to
    the reduction in positions within Starbucks leadership structure
    and non-store organization. See Note 2 for further details.
    Depending on the underlying asset that is impaired, these losses
    may be recorded in any one of the operating expense lines on the
    consolidated statements of earnings: for retail operations, the
    net impairment and disposition losses are recorded in
    Restructuring charges and Store operating expenses; for
    specialty operations, these losses are recorded in Restructuring
    charges and Other operating expenses; and for all other
    operations, these losses are recorded in Cost of sales including
    occupancy costs, General and administrative expenses, or
    Restructuring charges.

Insurance
    Reserves   

The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance
    mechanisms, including a wholly owned captive insurance entity
    and participation in a reinsurance pool, to provide for the
    potential liabilities for certain risks, including workers 
    compensation, healthcare benefits, general liability, property
    insurance, and director and officers  liability insurance.
    Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the
    Company are not discounted

47

Table of Contents   

and are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims
    experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other
    actuarial assumptions.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Consolidated revenues are presented net of intercompany
    eliminations for wholly owned subsidiaries and investees
    controlled by the Company and for licensees accounted for under
    the equity method, based on the Company s percentage
    ownership. Additionally, consolidated revenues are recognized
    net of any discounts, returns, allowances and sales incentives,
    including coupon redemptions and rebates.

Stored
    Value Cards   

Revenues from the Company s stored value cards, such as the
    Starbucks Card, and gift certificates are recognized when
    tendered for payment, or upon redemption. Outstanding customer
    balances are included in Deferred revenue on the consolidated
    balance sheets. There are no expiration dates on the
    Company s stored value cards or gift certificates, and
    Starbucks does not charge any service fees that cause a
    decrement to customer balances.

While the Company will continue to honor all stored value cards
    and gift certificates presented for payment, management may
    determine the likelihood of redemption to be remote for certain
    card and certificate balances due to, among other things, long
    periods of inactivity. In these circumstances, if management
    also determines there is no requirement for remitting balances
    to government agencies under unclaimed property laws, card and
    certificate balances may then be recognized in the consolidated
    statements of earnings in Net interest income and other. For the
    fiscal years ended September 27, 2009, September 28,
    2008 and September 30, 2007 income recognized on unredeemed
    stored value card balances and gift certificates was
    $26.0 million, $13.6 million and $12.9 million,
    respectively.

Retail
    Revenues   

Company-operated retail store revenues are recognized when
    payment is tendered at the point of sale. Starbucks maintains a
    sales return allowance to reduce retail revenues for estimated
    future product returns, including brewing equipment, based on
    historical patterns. Retail store revenues are reported net of
    sales, use or other transaction taxes that are collected from
    customers and remitted to taxing authorities.

Specialty
    Revenues   

Specialty revenues consist primarily of product sales to
    customers other than through Company-operated retail stores, as
    well as royalties and other fees generated from licensing
    operations. Sales of coffee, tea and related products are
    generally recognized upon shipment to customers, depending on
    contract terms. Shipping charges billed to customers are also
    recognized as revenue, and the related shipping costs are
    included in Cost of sales including occupancy costs on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Specific to retail store licensing arrangements, initial
    nonrefundable development fees are recognized upon substantial
    performance of services for new market business development
    activities, such as initial business, real estate and store
    development planning, as well as providing operational materials
    and functional training courses for opening new licensed retail
    markets. Additional store licensing fees are recognized when new
    licensed stores are opened. Royalty revenues based upon a
    percentage of reported sales and other continuing fees, such as
    marketing and service fees, are recognized on a monthly basis
    when earned. For certain licensing arrangements, where the
    Company intends to acquire an ownership interest, the initial
    nonrefundable development fees are deferred to Other long-term
    liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets until
    acquisition, at which point the fees are reflected as a
    reduction of the Company s investment.

Other arrangements involving multiple elements and deliverables
    as well as upfront fees are individually evaluated for revenue
    recognition. Cash payments received in advance of product or
    service delivery are recorded in Deferred revenue until earned.

48

Table of Contents   

Advertising   

The Company expenses most advertising costs as they are
    incurred, except for certain production costs that are expensed
    the first time the advertising campaign takes place and
    direct-response advertising, which is capitalized and amortized
    over its expected period of future benefits.

Advertising expenses, recorded in Store operating expenses,
    Other operating expenses and General and administrative expenses
    on the consolidated statements of earnings, totaled
    $126.3 million, $129.0 million and $103.5 million
    in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008,
    $7.2 million and $8.8 million, respectively, of
    capitalized advertising costs were recorded in Prepaid expenses
    and other current assets, and Other assets on the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Research
    and Development   

Starbucks expenses research and development costs as they are
    incurred. The Company spent approximately $6.5 million,
    $7.2 million and $7.0 million during fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively, on technical research and development
    activities, in addition to customary product testing and product
    and process improvements in all areas of its business.

Store
    Preopening Expenses   

Costs incurred in connection with the
     start-up  and
    promotion of new store openings are expensed as incurred.

Operating
    Leases   

Starbucks leases retail stores, roasting and distribution
    facilities and office space under operating leases. Most lease
    agreements contain tenant improvement allowances, rent holidays,
    lease premiums, rent escalation clauses
     and/or 
    contingent rent provisions. For purposes of recognizing
    incentives, premiums and minimum rental expenses on a
    straight-line basis over the terms of the leases, the Company
    uses the date of initial possession to begin amortization, which
    is generally when the Company enters the space and begins to
    make improvements in preparation of intended use.

For tenant improvement allowances and rent holidays, the Company
    records a deferred rent liability in Accrued occupancy costs and
    Other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets
    and amortizes the deferred rent over the terms of the leases as
    reductions to rent expense on the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

For premiums paid upfront to enter a lease agreement, the
    Company records a deferred rent asset in Prepaid expenses and
    other current assets and Other assets on the consolidated
    balance sheets and then amortizes the deferred rent over the
    terms of the leases as additional rent expense on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

For scheduled rent escalation clauses during the lease terms or
    for rental payments commencing at a date other than the date of
    initial occupancy, the Company records minimum rental expenses
    on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases on the
    consolidated statements of earnings.

Certain leases provide for contingent rents, which are
    determined as a percentage of gross sales in excess of specified
    levels. The Company records a contingent rent liability in
    Accrued occupancy costs on the consolidated balance sheets and
    the corresponding rent expense when specified levels have been
    achieved or when management determines that achieving the
    specified levels during the fiscal year is probable.

When ceasing operations in Company-operated stores under
    operating leases, in cases where the lease contract specifies a
    termination fee due to the landlord, the Company records such
    expense at the time written notice is given to the landlord. In
    cases where terms, including termination fees, are yet to be
    negotiated with the landlord, the Company will record the
    expense upon signing of an agreement with the landlord. Finally,
    in cases where the landlord does not allow the Company to
    prematurely exit its lease, but allows for subleasing, the
    Company estimates the fair value of any sublease income that can
    be generated from the location and expenses the present value of
    the excess of remaining lease payments to the landlord over the
    projected sublease income at the cease-use date.

49

Table of Contents   

Asset
    Retirement Obligations   

Starbucks recognizes a liability for the fair value of required
    asset retirement obligations ( ARO ) when such
    obligations are incurred. The Company s AROs are primarily
    associated with leasehold improvements which, at the end of a
    lease, the Company is contractually obligated to remove in order
    to comply with the lease agreement. At the inception of a lease
    with such conditions, the Company records an ARO liability and a
    corresponding capital asset in an amount equal to the estimated
    fair value of the obligation. The liability is estimated based
    on a number of assumptions requiring management s judgment,
    including store closing costs, cost inflation rates and discount
    rates, and is accreted to its projected future value over time.
    The capitalized asset is depreciated using the convention for
    depreciation of leasehold improvement assets. Upon satisfaction
    of the ARO conditions, any difference between the recorded ARO
    liability and the actual retirement costs incurred is recognized
    as an operating gain or loss in the consolidated statements of
    earnings. As of September 27, 2009 and September 28,
    2008, the Company s net ARO asset included in Net property,
    plant and equipment was $15.1 million and
    $18.5 million, respectively, while the Company s net
    ARO liability included in Other long-term liabilities was
    $43.4 million and $44.6 million, as of the same
    respective dates.

Stock-based
    Compensation   

The Company maintains several equity incentive plans under which
    it may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
    options, restricted stock, restricted stock units
    ( RSUs ) or stock appreciation rights to employees,
    non-employee directors and consultants. The Company also has
    employee stock purchase plans ( ESPP ). RSUs issued by
    the Company are equivalent to nonvested shares under the
    applicable accounting guidance. See Note 14 for additional
    details.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

The Company s international operations generally use their
    local currency as their functional currency. Assets and
    liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the
    balance sheet date. Income and expense accounts are translated
    at the average monthly exchange rates during the year. Resulting
    translation adjustments are recorded as a component of
    Accumulated other comprehensive income on the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Income
    Taxes   

The Company computes income taxes using the asset and liability
    method, under which deferred income taxes are provided for the
    temporary differences between the financial statement carrying
    amounts and the tax basis of the Company s assets and
    liabilities. The Company will establish a valuation allowance
    for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these
    items will either expire before the Company is able to realize
    their benefits, or that future deductibility is uncertain.
    Periodically, the valuation allowance is reviewed and adjusted
    based on management s assessments of realizable deferred
    tax assets.

Starbucks adopted the new accounting requirements for uncertain
    tax positions on the first day of the Company s first
    fiscal quarter of 2008. The cumulative impact of adopting the
    new accounting requirements is shown in the consolidated
    statements of shareholders  equity. The Company recognizes
    the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is
    more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on
    examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical
    merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the
    financial statements from such a position are measured based on
    the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of
    being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company recognizes
    interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income
    tax expense. See Note 15 for additional details.

Earnings
    per Share   

Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the
    weighted average number of shares and common stock units that
    were outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share
    includes the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents
    consisting of certain shares subject to stock options and RSUs,
    using the treasury stock method. Performance-based RSUs are
    considered diluted when the related performance criterion has
    been met.

50

Table of Contents   

Common
    Stock Share Repurchases   

The Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under a
    program authorized by its Board of Directors including pursuant
    to a contract, instruction or written plan meeting the
    requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1(c)(1) 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the
    Washington Business Corporation Act, share repurchases are not
    displayed separately as treasury stock on the consolidated
    balance sheets or consolidated statements of shareholders 
    equity. Instead, the par value of repurchased shares is deducted
    from Common stock and the remaining excess repurchase price over
    par value is deducted from Additional paid-in capital and from
    Retained earnings, once additional paid-in capital is depleted.
    See Note 13 for additional information.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements   

Starbucks adopted the new guidance issued by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) for fair value
    measurement for its financial assets and liabilities effective
    September 29, 2008 (see Note 5 for additional
    disclosures). The guidance defines fair value, establishes a
    framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands
    disclosures about fair value measurements. This guidance is
    effective for nonfinancial assets and liabilities for Starbucks
    first fiscal quarter of 2010. The Company believes that the
    adoption of this new guidance for its nonfinancial assets and
    liabilities will not have a material impact on its financial
    statements.

In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on
    business combinations, establishing principles and requirements
    for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial
    statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities
    assumed, any resulting goodwill, and any noncontrolling interest
    in an acquiree. The guidance also provides for disclosures to
    enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature
    and financial effects of the business combination. This new
    guidance will be effective for Starbucks first fiscal quarter of
    2010 and must be applied prospectively to business combinations
    completed in fiscal 2010 and beyond.

In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on
    accounting and reporting for noncontrolling interests in
    subsidiaries. The guidance clarifies that a noncontrolling
    interest in a subsidiary should be accounted for as a component
    of equity separate from the parent s equity. Starbucks will
    apply the new guidance relating to noncontrolling interests
    beginning in the first fiscal quarter of 2010 on a prospective
    basis, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements,
    which will be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this
    guidance will not have a material impact on the Company s
    financial statements.

In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the
    consolidation of variable interest entities ( VIE ),
    which will be effective for Starbucks first fiscal quarter of
    2011. The new guidance requires a qualitative approach to
    identifying a controlling financial interest in a variable
    interest entity, and requires ongoing assessment of whether an
    entity is a VIE and whether an interest in a VIE makes the
    holder the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact that adoption may have on its
    consolidated financial statements.

Note 2:    

Restructuring
    Charges  

In fiscal 2009, Starbucks continued to execute its restructuring
    efforts to position the Company for long-term profitable growth.
    These efforts have been focused on both the global
    Company-operated store base and the non-retail support
    organization. Starbucks actions to rationalize its store
    portfolio have included plans (announced in July 2008 and
    January 2009) to close approximately 800 Company-operated
    stores in the US, restructure its Australia market, and close
    approximately 100 additional Company-operated stores
    internationally. Since those announcements, nearly all of the
    approximately 800 US stores, 61 stores in Australia and 41 in
    other International markets have been closed.

US Store Closures    In fiscal 2009, the Company
    closed 383 of the approximately 600 stores announced in July
    2008, bringing the total number of US closures under this
    restructuring action to 588 stores. The Company also closed 183
    of the approximately 200 stores announced for closure in January
    2009.

International Store Closures    During fiscal
    2009, the Company closed 41 of the approximately 100 stores
    announced for closure in January 2009. The Company expects to
    complete the remaining closures in fiscal 2010, and will
    recognize the associated lease exit costs concurrently with the
    actual closures.

51

Table of Contents   

Workforce Reduction and Other Related Costs   
    Workforce reductions related to store closures and non-store
    support positions resulted in the recognition of
    $19.0 million in employee termination costs in fiscal 2009.
    In addition, in fiscal 2009, Starbucks recognized
    $47.8 million of valuation adjustments on corporate office
    facilities that were no longer intended to be occupied by the
    Company.

Restructuring charges by type and a reconciliation of the
    associated accrued liability  (in millions) :

Restructuring charges by reportable segment  (in millions) :

(1)  

The difference between expenses recognized and costs incurred
    within a period is due to lease termination agreements that were
    finalized in one period for store closures to occur in a
    subsequent period. Such termination fees are amortized on a
    straight-line basis from the date of the termination agreement
    to the date of closure. 

(2)  

Non-cash charges and credits for Lease exit and other related
    costs primarily represent deferred rent balances recognized as
    expense credits at the cease-use date. 

(3)  

Includes $1.0 million of employee termination costs for the
    CPG segment for fiscal 2009. 

52

Table of Contents   

Note 3:    

Investments  

Short-term and long-term investments  (in millions) :

Available-for-sale 
    securities   

Proceeds from sales of
     available-for-sale 
    securities were $5.0 million, $75.9 million and
    $47.5 million and in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. For fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, there were
    immaterial realized gains and losses on sales and maturities.

As of September 27, 2009, the Company s long-term
     available-for-sale 
    securities of $71.2 million included $55.7 million
    invested in auction rate securities ( ARS ). As of
    September 28, 2008, the Company s long-term
     available-for-sale 
    securities of $71.4 million included $59.8 million
    invested in ARS. ARS have long-dated maturities but provide
    liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the
    applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals.
    Due to the auction failures that began in February 2008, these
    securities became illiquid and were classified as long-term
    investments. The investment principal associated with the failed
    auctions will not be accessible until:

successful auctions resume;

an active secondary market for these securities develops;

the issuers replace these securities with another form of
    financing; or

final payments are made according to the contractual maturities
    of the debt issues which range from 21 to 36 years.

53

Table of Contents   

The Company does not intend to sell the ARS, nor is it likely it
    will be required to sell the ARS before their anticipated
    recovery. The Company expects such recoveries to occur prior to
    the contractual maturities. In fiscal 2009, one ARS was called
    at par value of $7.4 million and one ARS was partially
    called at par value of $0.6 million.

The Company had $2.1 million and $6.0 million of
    accumulated unrealized losses on ARS as of the end of fiscal
    2009 and 2008, respectively, determined to be temporary, which
    is included in Accumulated other comprehensive income as a
    reduction in shareholders  equity. As of September 27,
    2009, approximately $4.9 million in ARS were rated A/B2 by
    Standard   Poor s and Moody s, respectively.
    All of the remaining securities were rated investment grade or
    higher by two or more of the following rating agencies:
    Moody s, Standard   Poor s and Fitch
    Ratings. The Company s ARS are collateralized by portfolios
    of student loans, substantially all of which are guaranteed by
    the United States Department of Education.

The following table presents the length of time
     available-for-sale 
    securities were in continuous unrealized loss positions but were
    not determined to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired  (in millions) :

Consecutive
    Monthly Unrealized Losses   

Gross unrealized holding losses on the state and local
    obligations pertain to the Company s eleven ARS. As
    Starbucks does not intend to sell these securities, nor is it
    likely it will be required to sell these securities before their
    anticipated recovery, which may be at maturity, the Company does
    not consider these securities to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

There were no realized losses recorded for other than temporary
    impairments during fiscal years 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Trading
    securities   

Trading securities are comprised of marketable equity mutual
    funds and equity exchange-traded funds that approximate a
    portion of the Company s liability under the Management
    Deferred Compensation Plan ( MDCP ), a defined
    contribution plan. The corresponding deferred compensation
    liability of $68.3 million and $68.0 million in fiscal
    2009 and 2008, respectively, is included in Accrued compensation
    and related costs on the consolidated balance sheets. The
    changes in net unrealized holding gains/losses in the trading
    portfolio included in earnings for the years ended
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008 were a net
    loss of $4.9 million and $14.5 million, respectively.

54

Table of Contents   

Note 4:    

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Cash
    Flow Hedges   

The Company and certain subsidiaries enter into cash flow
    derivative instruments to hedge portions of anticipated revenue
    streams and inventory purchases in currencies other than the
    entity s functional currency. Outstanding forward
    contracts, which comprise the majority of the Company s
    derivative instruments, hedge monthly forecasted revenue
    transactions denominated in Japanese yen and Canadian dollars,
    as well as forecasted inventory purchases denominated in US
    dollars for foreign operations. From time to time, the Company
    also uses futures contracts to hedge the variable price
    component for a small portion of its
     price-to-be-fixed 
    green coffee purchase contracts.

The Company had net derivative losses of $3.9 million and
    $9.2 million, net of taxes, in Accumulated OCI as of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008,
    respectively, related to cash flow hedges. Of the net derivative
    losses accumulated as of September 28, 2009,
    $0.9 million pertain to hedging instruments that will be
    dedesignated within 12 months and will also continue to
    experience fair value changes before affecting earnings.
    Ineffectiveness from hedges that were discontinued in fiscal
    years 2009 and 2008 was insignificant. Outstanding contracts
    will expire within 36 months.

Net
    Investment Hedges   

Net investment derivative instruments are used to hedge the
    Company s equity method investment in Starbucks Coffee
    Japan, Ltd. ( Starbucks Japan ) as well as the
    Company s net investments in its Canada, UK and China
    subsidiaries, to minimize foreign currency exposure.

The Company had net derivative losses of $19.8 million and
    $13.0 million, net of taxes, in Accumulated OCI as of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008,
    respectively, related to net investment derivative hedges.
    Outstanding contracts will expire within 18 months.

Other
    Derivatives   

The Company enters into certain foreign currency forward
    contracts that are not designated as hedging instruments to
    mitigate the translation risk of certain balance sheet items.
    These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the changes in
    fair value recognized in Net interest income and other on the
    consolidated statements of earnings. For the fiscal years 2009
    and 2008, these forward contracts resulted in a net gain of
    $20.0 million and a net loss $0.1 million,
    respectively. These gains and losses were largely offset by the
    financial impact of translating foreign currency denominated
    payables and receivables, which are also recognized in Net
    interest income and other.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company entered into
    certain swap and futures contracts that are not designated as
    hedging instruments to mitigate the price uncertainty of a
    portion of its future purchases of dairy products and diesel
    fuel. These contracts are recorded at fair value, with the
    changes in fair value recognized in Net interest income and
    other on the consolidated statement of earnings. For the fiscal
    year 2009, these swaps and futures contracts resulted in a net
    loss of $0.6 million.

55

Table of Contents   

Fair values of derivative instruments on the consolidated
    balance sheet as of September 27, 2009  (in millions) :

Assets 

Liabilities 

Contract Type 

Balance Sheet Location 

Fair Value 

Balance Sheet Location 

Fair Value 

Derivatives designated as hedging instrument for accounting
    purposes: 

Cash Flow Hedges:

Foreign Exchange

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

$

6.3

Other accrued expenses

$

6.6

Foreign Exchange

Other assets

5.5

Other long-term liabilities

5.6

11.8

12.2

Net Investment Hedges:

Foreign Exchange

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

0.4

Other accrued expenses

4.7

Foreign Exchange

Other assets

Other long-term liabilities

6.4

0.4

11.1

Total derivatives designated as hedging instrument for
    accounting purposes

$

12.2

$

23.3

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments for
    accounting purposes: 

Foreign Exchange

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

$

0.9

Other accrued expenses

$

9.6

Commodity

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

0.1

Other accrued expenses

0.3

Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments for
    accounting purposes

1.0

9.9

Total Derivatives

$

13.2

$

33.2

The following table presents the effect of derivative
    instruments on the consolidated statements of earnings in fiscal
    2009  (in millions) :

Location of Gain/(Loss) 

Reclassified from Accumulated 

OCI into Earnings - 

Gain/(Loss) Reclassed from 

Contract Type 

Gain/(Loss) Recognized in OCI 

Effective Portion 

Accumulated OCI to Earnings 

Derivatives designated as hedging instruments for accounting
    purposes: 

Cash Flow Hedges:

Foreign
    Exchange (1) 

$

9.3

Total net revenue

$

(4.5

)

Cost of sales including occupancy costs

6.0

Commodity

(1.5

)

Cost of sales including occupancy costs

(1.0

)

Interest
    rate (2) 

Interest expense

(0.7

)

7.8

(0.2

)

Net Investment Hedges:

Foreign
    Exchange (3) 

(10.8

)

Total

$

(3.0

)

$

(0.2

)

56

Table of Contents   

Location of Gain/(Loss) 

Gain/(Loss) 

Recognized in Earnings 

Recognized in Earnings 

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments for
    accounting purposes: 

Foreign Exchange

Interest income and other, net

$

22.8

Commodity

Interest Income and other, net

$

(0.6

)

(1)  

In fiscal 2009, $0.3 million of gain was recognized in Net
    interest income and other related to the ineffective portion. 

(2)  

The Company entered into, dedesignated and settled forward
    interest rate contracts to hedge movements in interest rates
    prior to issuing its $550 million 6.25% Senior Notes
    in fiscal 2007. The resulting net losses from these contracts
    will continue to be reclassified to Interest expense on the
    consolidated statements of earnings over the life of the Senior
    Notes due in 2017. 

(3)  

In fiscal 2009, $3.7 million of gain was recognized in Net
    interest income and other related to the ineffective portion. 

The Company had the following outstanding derivative contracts
    as of September 27, 2009, based on notional amounts:

$708 million in foreign exchange contracts

$25 million in dairy contracts

$7 million in diesel contracts

Note 5:    

Fair
    Value Measurements  

The Company adopted the new fair value accounting guidance
    related to financial assets and liabilities effective
    September 29, 2008, and will adopt the new fair value
    accounting guidance for nonfinancial assets and liabilities in
    the first fiscal quarter of 2010. The new fair value accounting
    guidance allows for this two-step adoption approach. The Company
    continues to evaluate the potential impact of the adoption of
    fair value measurements related to its property, plant and
    equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.

The guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value under GAAP and expands disclosures about
    fair value measurements. It also establishes a fair value
    hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value:

Level 1:   Observable inputs that reflect
    unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities
    traded in active markets.

Level 2:   Inputs other than quoted prices
    included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset
    or liability, either directly or indirectly.

Level 3:   Inputs that are generally
    unobservable. These inputs may be used with internally developed
    methodologies that result in management s best estimate of
    fair value.

57

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring
    Basis (in millions):   

Trading securities include equity mutual funds and
    exchange-traded funds. For these securities, the Company uses
    quoted prices in active markets for identical assets to
    determine their fair value, thus they are considered to be
    Level 1 instruments.

Available-for-sale 
    securities include government treasury securities, corporate
    bonds and ARS. For government treasury securities, the Company
    uses quoted prices in active markets for identical assets to
    determine their fair value, thus they are considered to be
    Level 1 instruments. The Company uses observable
    direct and indirect inputs for corporate bonds, which are
    considered Level 2 instruments. Level 3 instruments
    are comprised solely of ARS, all of which are considered to be
    illiquid due to the auction failures that began in February
    2008. The Company values ARS using an internally developed
    valuation model, whose inputs include interest rate curves,
    credit and liquidity spreads, and effective maturity.

Derivative assets and liabilities include foreign currency
    forward contracts, commodity swaps and futures contracts. Where
    applicable, the Company uses quoted prices in an active market
    for identical derivative assets and liabilities that are traded
    on exchanges. These derivative assets and liabilities are coffee
    and dairy futures contracts, and are included in Level 1.
    Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 2 are
     over-the-counter 
    currency forward contracts and commodity swaps whose fair values
    are estimated using industry-standard valuation models. Such
    models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts
    to a present value using market-based observable inputs,
    including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for
    currencies and commodities.

Changes
    in Level 3 Instruments Measured at Fair Value on a
    Recurring Basis (in millions):   

Financial
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring
    Basis   

The Company measures certain financial assets, including its
    cost and equity method investments, at fair value on a
    nonrecurring basis. These assets are recognized at fair value
    when they are deemed to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

58

Table of Contents   

Note 6:    

Inventories  

Inventories consisted of the following  (in millions) :

Other merchandise held for sale includes, among other items,
    serveware, tea and brewing equipment.

As of September 27, 2009, the Company had committed to
    purchasing green coffee totaling $155 million under
    fixed-price contracts and an estimated $84 million under
     price-to-be-fixed 
    contracts. The Company believes, based on relationships
    established with its suppliers in the past, the risk of
    non-delivery on such purchase commitments is remote.

Note 7:    

Equity
    and Cost Investments  

Equity and cost investments  (in millions) :

Equity
    Method Investments   

Equity investees and ownership interests by reportable operating
    segment:

59

Table of Contents   

StarCon, LLC was a joint venture formed in March 2007 with
    Concord Music Group, Inc. ( Concord ). The Company
    sold its 50% ownership interest to Concord in early fiscal 2009.
    The International entities operate licensed Starbucks retail
    stores. See Note 19 for a discussion of a transaction
    affecting the Company s ownership related to its markets in
    France, Spain and Portugal. The Company also has licensed the
    rights to produce and distribute Starbucks branded products to
    two partnerships in which the Company holds 50% equity
    interests. The North American Coffee Partnership with the
    Pepsi-Cola Company develops and distributes bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages and Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks. Starbucks Ice Cream Partnership developed and
    distributed super premium ice creams, and was in the process of
    being dissolved at the end of fiscal 2009. It was replaced by a
    licensing agreement with Unilever for the manufacturing,
    marketing and distribution of Starbucks super-premium ice cream
    products in the US.

Prior to fiscal 2005, Starbucks acquired equity interest in its
    licensed operations of Malaysia, Austria, Shanghai, Spain,
    Switzerland and Taiwan. The carrying amount of these investments
    was $24.3 million more than the underlying equity in net
    assets due to acquired goodwill, which is evaluated for
    impairment annually. No impairments were recorded during fiscal
    years 2009, 2008 or 2007.

The Company s share of income and losses from its equity
    method investments is included in Income from equity investees
    on the consolidated statements of earnings. Also included in
    this line item is the Company s proportionate share of
    gross margin resulting from coffee and other product sales to,
    and royalty and license fee revenues generated from, equity
    investees. Revenues generated from these related parties, net of
    eliminations, were $125.3 million, $128.1 million and
    $107.9 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Related costs of sales, net of eliminations, were
    $64.9 million, $66.2 million and $57.1 million in
    fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, there were
    $37.6 million and $40.6 million of accounts
    receivable, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets
    from equity investees primarily related to product sales and
    store license fees.

As of September 27, 2009, the aggregate market value of the
    Company s investment in Starbucks Japan was approximately
    $241 million, based on its available quoted market price.

Summarized combined financial information of the Company s
    equity method investees, which represent 100% of the
    investees  financial information ( in millions ):

Cost
    Method Investments   

The Company has equity interests in entities that develop and
    operate Starbucks licensed retail stores in several global
    markets. The value of these investments was $36.6 million
    and $31.9 million as of September 27, 2009 and
    September 28, 2008, respectively. Additionally, Starbucks
    has investments in privately held equity securities unrelated to
    Starbucks licensed retail stores. The value of these investments
    was $2.5 million at September 27, 2009 and
    $2.8 million at September 28, 2008. As of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, management
    determined that the estimated fair values of each cost method
    investment exceeded the related carrying values. In the third
    quarter of fiscal 2009 Starbucks recognized a loss of
    $0.3 million on one of the investments that is unrelated to
    Starbucks licensed retail stores. There were no realized losses
    recorded for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment of the Company s cost method investments during
    fiscal years 2008 or 2007.

60

Table of Contents   

Starbucks has the ability to acquire additional interests in
    some of these cost method investees at certain intervals.
    Depending on the Company s total percentage of ownership
    interest and its ability to exercise significant influence over
    financial and operating policies, additional investments may
    require the retroactive application of the equity method of
    accounting.

Note 8:    

Property,
    Plant and Equipment  

Property, plant and equipment  (in millions) :

Note 9:    

Other
    Intangible Assets and Goodwill  

Other intangible assets  (in millions) :

Amortization expense for definite-lived intangibles was
    $1.7 million, $1.5 million and $1.0 million
    during fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Estimated amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal
    years and thereafter, as of September 27, 2009
     (in millions) :

61

Table of Contents   

Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable
    operating segment for the fiscal year ended September 27,
    2009  (in millions) :

United
    States   

The impairment of $7.0 million relates to the
    Company s Hawaii reporting unit as discussed further in
    Note 1.

International   

The decrease in goodwill of $1.2 million was due to
    purchase price adjustments for property, plant and equipment
    acquired as a part of the Coffee Vision, Inc. acquisition,
    completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. The increase in
    goodwill of $0.8 million included in Other was due to
    foreign currency fluctuations.

Debt consisted of the following  (in millions) :

Revolving
    Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program   

The Company has a $1 billion unsecured credit facility (the
     credit facility ) with various banks, of which
    $100 million may be used for issuances of letters of
    credit. The credit facility is available for working capital,
    capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, which may
    include acquisitions and share repurchases. The credit facility
    is currently set to terminate in August 2011. On
    October 31, 2008, the Company entered into an amendment to
    its facility that, among other changes, increased the interest
    rate range for borrowings under the credit facility to 0.21% to
    0.67% over LIBOR or the greater of the bank prime rate or the
    Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%. The specific spread over LIBOR
    will continue to depend upon the Company s long-term credit
    ratings assigned by Moody s and Standard  
    Poor s rating agencies and the Company s coverage
    ratio. The credit facility contains provisions requiring the
    Company to maintain compliance with certain covenants, including
    a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio which measures the
    Company s ability to cover financing expenses.

Under the Company s commercial paper program it may issue
    unsecured commercial paper notes, up to a maximum aggregate
    amount outstanding at any time of $1 billion, with
    individual maturities that may vary, but not exceed
    397 days from the date of issue. The program is backstopped
    by the Company s credit facility, and the combined

62

Table of Contents   

borrowing limit is $1 billion for the commercial paper
    program and the credit facility. The Company may issue
    commercial paper from time to time, and the proceeds of the
    commercial paper financing will be used for working capital
    needs, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes, which
    may include acquisitions and share repurchases.

As of September 27, 2009, the Company also had
    $14.1 million in letters of credit outstanding under the
    credit facility, leaving a total of $985.9 million in
    remaining borrowing capacity under the combined credit facility
    and commercial paper program. As of September 28, 2008,
    letters of credit totaling $15.9 million were outstanding.

Long-term
    Debt   

In August 2007, the Company issued $550 million of
    6.25% Senior Notes (the  notes ) due in August
    2017, in an underwritten registered public offering. Interest is
    payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year.
    The notes require the Company to maintain compliance with
    certain covenants, which limit future liens and sale and
    leaseback transactions on certain material properties.

Other long term debt, totaling $0.1 million as of
    September 27, 2009, matures in fiscal 2011.

Scheduled principal payments on long-term debt are as follows
     (in millions) :

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense, net of interest capitalized, was
    $39.1 million, $53.4 million and $38.2 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In fiscal 2009, 2008
    and 2007, $2.9 million, $7.2 million and
    $3.9 million, respectively, of interest was capitalized for
    new store and other asset construction projects, and included in
    Net property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance
    sheets.

Note 11:    

Other
    Long-term Liabilities  

Other long-term liabilities  (in millions) :

Deferred rent liabilities represent amounts for tenant
    improvement allowances, rent escalation clauses and rent
    holidays related to certain operating leases. The Company
    amortizes deferred rent over the terms of the leases as
    reductions to rent expense on the consolidated statements of
    earnings. Unrecognized tax benefits represent the estimated
    long-term portion of the Company s gross unrecognized tax
    benefits including interest. See Notes 1 and 15 for
    additional information. Asset retirement obligations represent
    the estimated fair value of the Company s

63

Table of Contents   

future costs of removing leasehold improvements at the
    termination of leases for certain stores and administrative
    facilities. Minority interest represents the collective
    ownership interests of minority shareholders for operations
    accounted for under the consolidation method, in which Starbucks
    owns less than 100% of the equity interest. The other remaining
    long-term liabilities generally include obligations to be
    settled or paid for one year beyond each period presented, for
    items such as hedging instruments and the long-term portion of
    capital lease obligations.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 Starbucks determined that
    there was an immaterial classification error in the lease
    footnote of the 2008
     10-K. 
    Amounts of $25.7 million and $22.7 million for the
    fiscal years ended September 28, 2008 and
    September 30, 2007, respectively, were incorrectly
    classified as contingent rent that should have been classified
    as minimum rentals. The total for rent expense under operating
    leases was not impacted. The following table reflects the
    corrected amounts for fiscal 2008 and 2007.

Rental expense under operating lease agreements  (in
    millions) :

Minimum future rental payments under noncancelable operating
    leases as of September 27, 2009  (in millions) :

The Company has subleases related to certain of its operating
    leases. During fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company
    recognized sublease income of $7.1 million,
    $3.5 million and $3.6 million, respectively.

The Company had capital lease obligations of $7.8 million
    and $6.7 million as of September 27, 2009 and
    September 28, 2008, respectively. Capital lease obligations
    expire at various dates, with the latest maturity in 2015. The
    current portion of the total obligation is included in Other
    accrued expenses and the remaining long-term portion is included
    in Other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance
    sheets. Assets held under capital leases are included in Net
    property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance sheets.

The Company had $76.2 million and $91.1 million in
    prepaid rent included in Prepaid expenses and other current
    assets on the consolidated balance sheets as of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008,
    respectively.

Note 13:    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

In addition to 1.2 billion shares of authorized common
    stock with $0.001 par value per share, the Company has
    authorized 7.5 million shares of preferred stock, none of
    which was outstanding at September 27, 2009.

64

Table of Contents   

Share repurchase activity was as follows  (in millions, except
    for average price data) :

The difference between the accrual-based and cash-based cost of
    acquired shares represents the effect of the net change in
    unsettled trades from the prior fiscal year end.

As of September 27, 2009, 6.3 million shares remained
    available for repurchase under current authorizations.

Comprehensive
    Income   

Comprehensive income includes all changes in equity during the
    period, except those resulting from transactions with
    shareholders of the Company. It has two components: net earnings
    and other comprehensive income. Accumulated other comprehensive
    income reported on the Company s consolidated balance
    sheets consists of foreign currency translation adjustments and
    the unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, on
     available-for-sale 
    securities and on derivative instruments designated and
    qualifying as cash flow and net investment hedges.

Comprehensive income, net of related tax effects  (in
    millions) :

The favorable translation adjustment change during fiscal 2009
    of $15.2 million was primarily due to the weakening of the
    US dollar against the Japanese yen, Australian dollar and the
    euro. The unfavorable translation adjustment change during
    fiscal 2008 of $7.0 million was primarily due to the
    strengthening of the US dollar against several currencies
    including the Australian dollar, Korean won and Canadian dollar.
    The favorable translation adjustment change during fiscal 2007
    of $37.7 million was primarily due to the weakening of the
    US dollar against several currencies including the euro,
    Canadian dollar and British pound.

65

Table of Contents   

Components of Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax
     (in millions) :

As of September 27, 2009, the translation adjustment of
    $89.9 million was net of tax provisions of
    $1.0 million. As of September 28, 2008, the
    translation adjustment of $74.7 million was net of tax
    provisions of $7.0 million.

Note 14:    

Employee
    Stock and Benefit Plans  

The Company maintains several equity incentive plans under which
    it may grant non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
    options, restricted stock, RSUs, or stock appreciation rights to
    employees, non-employee directors and consultants. The Company
    issues new shares of common stock upon exercise of stock options
    and the vesting of RSUs. The Company also has employee stock
    purchase plans ( ESPP ).

As of September 27, 2009, there were 38.2 million
    shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to future
    equity-based compensation awards and 9.8 million shares
    available for issuance under its ESPP plans.

Total stock based compensation and ESPP expense recognized in
    the consolidated financial statements  (in millions) :

Stock
    Option Plans   

Stock options to purchase the Company s common stock are
    granted at the fair market value of the stock on the date of
    grant. The majority of options become exercisable in four equal
    installments beginning a year from the date of grant and
    generally expire 10 years from the date of grant, except
    for options granted in the exchange program, described below,
    which have a seven year life. Options granted to non-employee
    directors generally vest over one to three years. Nearly all
    outstanding stock options are non-qualified stock options.

The fair value of each stock option granted is estimated on the
    grant date using the Black-Scholes-Merton ( BSM )
    option valuation model. The assumptions used to calculate the
    fair value of options granted are evaluated and revised, as
    necessary, to reflect market conditions and the Company s
    experience. Options granted are valued using the multiple option
    valuation approach, and the resulting expense is recognized over
    the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion
    of the award. Compensation expense is recognized only for those
    options expected to vest, with forfeitures estimated at the date
    of grant based on the Company s historical experience and
    future expectations.

On March 18, 2009, Starbucks shareholders approved a
    proposal to allow for a one-time stock option exchange program,
    designed to provide eligible employees an opportunity to
    exchange certain outstanding underwater stock

66

Table of Contents   

options for a lesser amount of new options to be granted with
    lower exercise prices. Stock options eligible for exchange were
    those with an exercise price per share greater than $19.00 that
    were granted prior to December 1, 2007 under the
    Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Long-Term Equity
    Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ), the Amended and
    Restated Key Employee Stock Option Plan-1994 or the 1991
    Company-Wide Stock Option Plan. On May 1, 2009 Starbucks
    commenced the option exchange program, which expired on
    May 29, 2009. A total of 14.3 million eligible stock
    options were tendered by employees, representing 65% of the
    total stock options eligible for exchange. On June 1, 2009,
    the Company granted an aggregate of 4.7 million new stock
    options in exchange for the eligible stock options surrendered.
    The exercise price of the new stock options was $14.92, which
    was the closing price of Starbucks common stock on June 1,
    2009. The new stock options were granted under the 2005 Plan. No
    incremental stock option expense was recognized for the exchange
    because the fair value of the new options, using standard
    employee stock option valuation techniques, was approximately
    equal to the fair value of the surrendered options they replaced.

The fair value of stock option awards and ESPP shares was
    estimated at the grant date with the following weighted average
    assumptions for the fiscal years ended September 27, 2009,
    September 28, 2008 and September 30, 2007 (excludes
    options granted in the 2009 stock option exchange program
    described above):

The expected term of the options represents the estimated period
    of time until exercise and is based on historical experience of
    similar awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms,
    vesting schedules and expectations of future employee behavior.
    Expected stock price volatility is based on a combination of
    historical volatility of the Company s stock and the
    one-year implied volatility of its traded options, for the
    related vesting periods. The risk-free interest rate is based on
    the implied yield available on US Treasury zero-coupon issues
    with an equivalent remaining term. As the Company does not pay
    dividends, the dividend yield is 0%. The amounts shown above for
    the estimated fair value per option granted are before the
    estimated effect of forfeitures, which reduce the amount of
    expense recorded on the consolidated statement of earnings.

The BSM option valuation model was developed for use in
    estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no
    vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. The
    Company s employee stock options have characteristics
    significantly different from those of traded options, and
    changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
    affect the fair value estimate. Because Starbucks stock options
    do not trade on a secondary exchange, employees do not derive a
    benefit from holding stock options unless there is an increase,
    above the grant price, in the market price of the Company s
    stock. Such an increase in stock price would benefit all
    shareholders commensurately.

67

Table of Contents   

Stock option transactions from October 1, 2006, through
    September 27, 2009  (in millions, except per share and
    contractual life amounts) :

The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above is the amount
    by which the market value of the underlying stock exceeded the
    exercise price of outstanding options, is before applicable
    income taxes and represents the amount optionees would have
    realized if all
     in-the-money 
    options had been exercised on the last business day of the
    period indicated. The closing per share market value of the
    Company s stock on September 25, 2009 was $19.83.

As of September 27, 2009, total unrecognized stock-based
    compensation expense, net of estimated forfeitures, related to
    nonvested stock options was approximately $68 million,
    before income taxes, and is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted average period of approximately 2.7 years. The
    total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was
    $44 million, $50 million and $274 million during
    the three fiscal years ended September 27, 2009. The total
    fair value of options vested was $75 million,
    $99 million and $28 million during fiscal years 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

RSUs   

The Company has both time-vested and performance-based RSUs.
    Time-vested RSUs are awarded to eligible employees and entitle
    the grantee to receive shares of common stock at the end of a
    vesting period, subject solely to the employee s continuing
    employment. The Company s performance-based RSUs are
    awarded to eligible employees and entitle the grantee to receive
    shares of common stock if the Company achieves specified
    performance goals for the full fiscal year in the year of award
    and the grantee remains employed during the subsequent vesting
    period. The fair value of RSUs is based on the closing price of
    Starbucks common stock on the award date. Expense for
    performance-based RSUs is recognized when it is probable the
    performance goal will be achieved.

68

Table of Contents   

Summary of all RSU transactions from October 1, 2006
    through September 27, 2009  (in millions, except per
    share and contractual life amounts) :

As of September 27, 2009, total unrecognized stock-based
    compensation expense related to nonvested RSUs, net of estimated
    forfeitures, was approximately $23 million, before income
    taxes, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted
    average period of approximately 2.4 years.

ESPP   

The Company s ESPP allows eligible employees to contribute
    up to 10% of their base earnings toward the quarterly purchase
    of the Company s common stock, subject to an annual maximum
    dollar amount. The ESPP for US employees was amended in March
    2009 to change the employees  purchase price to 95% of the
    fair market value of the stock on the last business day of the
    quarterly offering period. Prior to the amendment, the
    employees  purchase price was 85% of the lesser of the fair
    market value of the stock on the first or last business day of
    the quarterly offering period.

Summary of transactions under this ESPP from fiscal year 2007
    through 2009  (shares in millions) :

Starbucks has an additional employee stock purchase plan in the
    UK, which allows eligible UK employees to purchase shares of
    common stock through payroll deductions during six-month
    offering periods at the lesser of the fair market value of the
    stock at the beginning or at the end of the offering period. The
    Company awards one matching share for each six shares purchased
    under the plan. The Company did not initiate a new offering
    period at the conclusion of the six-month offering period that
    ended April 30, 2009, and does not plan to reactivate plan

69

Table of Contents   

offerings in the immediate future. The total number of shares
    issuable under the plan is 1.4 million. As of
    September 27, 2009, 1.3 million shares were available
    for future issuance.

Deferred
    Stock Plan   

Starbucks has a deferred stock plan for certain key employees
    that enables participants in the plan to defer receipt of
    ownership of common shares from the exercise of nonqualified
    stock options. The minimum deferral period is five years. As of
    September 27, 2009, receipt of 3.4 million shares was
    deferred under the terms of this plan. The rights to receive
    these shares, represented by common stock units, are included in
    the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share as
    common stock equivalents. No new initial deferrals are permitted
    under this plan; the plan permits re-deferrals of previously
    deferred shares.

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

Starbucks maintains voluntary defined contribution plans, both
    qualified and non-qualified, covering eligible employees as
    defined in the plan documents. Participating employees may elect
    to defer and contribute a portion of their eligible compensation
    to the plans up to limits stated in the plan documents, not to
    exceed the dollar amounts set by applicable laws. Effective
    beginning in plan year 2009, the Company changed to a fully
    discretionary matching contribution, from one based on a fixed
    schedule tied to participant contribution percentage and
    employment tenure.

The Company s matching contributions to all US and non-US
    plans were $19.7 million, $25.3 million and
    $20.1 million in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Provision for income taxes  (in millions) :

Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate with the
    Company s effective income tax rate:

US income and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided
    on approximately $520 million of cumulative undistributed
    earnings of foreign subsidiaries and equity investees. The
    Company intends to reinvest these earnings for the foreseeable
    future. If these amounts were distributed to the US, in the form
    of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to
    additional US income taxes. Determination of the amount of
    unrecognized deferred income tax liabilities on these earnings
    is not practicable because such liability, if any, is dependent
    on circumstances existing if and when remittance occurs.

70

Table of Contents   

Tax effect of temporary differences and carryforwards that
    comprise significant portions of deferred tax assets and
    liabilities  (in millions): 

The Company will establish a valuation allowance if either it is
    more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will expire
    before the Company is able to realize their benefits, or the
    future deductibility is uncertain. Periodically, the valuation
    allowance is reviewed and adjusted based on management s
    assessments of realizable deferred tax assets. The valuation
    allowance as of September 27, 2009 and September 28,
    2008 was related to net operating losses of consolidated foreign
    subsidiaries. The net change in the total valuation allowance
    for the years ended September 27, 2009, and
    September 28, 2008, was an increase of $0.3 million
    and $6.3 million, respectively.

As of September 27, 2009, the Company has foreign tax
    credit carryforwards of $38.5 million with expiration dates
    between fiscal years 2013 and 2019. As of the end of fiscal
    2009, the Company also has capital loss carryforwards of
    $1.1 million with expiration dates between fiscal years
    2010 and 2014.

Taxes currently payable of $57.2 million and
    $14.8 million are included in Accrued taxes on the
    consolidated balance sheets as of September 27, 2009 and
    September 28, 2008, respectively.

Uncertain
    Tax Positions   

As described in Note 1, on October 1, 2007, the first
    day of the Company s fiscal 2008, Starbucks adopted new
    accounting requirements for uncertain tax positions. The
    cumulative effects of the related changes were recorded as a
    decrease of $1.7 million and $1.6 million,
    respectively, to the Company s fiscal 2008 opening balances
    of retained earnings and additional paid-in capital. The Company
    also recorded an increase of $28.5 million to current
    income tax assets, an increase of $12.2 million to
    long-term income tax assets, a decrease of $24.6 million to
    current tax liabilities and an increase of $68.6 million to
    long-term tax liabilities.

71

Table of Contents   

As of September 27, 2009, the Company had
    $49.1 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits of which
    $25.4 million, if recognized, would affect the effective
    tax rate. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related
    to income tax matters in income tax expense. As of
    September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, the Company
    had accrued interest and penalties of $9.9 million and
    $9.1 million, respectively, before benefit of federal tax
    deduction, recorded on its consolidated balance sheets.

The following table summarizes the activity related to the
    Company s unrecognized tax benefits from October 1,
    2007 to September 27, 2009  (in millions) :

Starbucks is currently under routine audit by various
    jurisdictions outside the US as well as US state taxing
    jurisdictions for fiscal years 2003 through 2008. The Company is
    no longer subject to US federal or state examination for years
    before fiscal year 2005, with the exception of three states. The
    Company is subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside
    the US, none of which are individually material to the
    consolidated financial statements.

There is a reasonable possibility that the unrecognized tax
    benefits will change within the next 12 months, but the
    Company does not expect this change to be material to the
    consolidated financial statements.

Note 16:    

Earnings
    per Share  

Calculation of net earnings per common share
    ( EPS )   basic and diluted  (in millions,
    except EPS) :

Potential dilutive shares consist of the incremental common
    shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options
    (both vested and non-vested) and unvested RSUs, using the
    treasury stock method. Potential dilutive shares are excluded
    from the computation of earnings per share if their effect is
    antidilutive. The number of antidilutive options totaled
    16.6 million, 40.4 million and 10.4 million, in
    fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Note 17:    

Commitments
    and Contingencies  

Guarantees   

The Company has unconditionally guaranteed the repayment of
    certain Japanese yen-denominated bank loans and related interest
    and fees of an unconsolidated equity investee, Starbucks Japan.
    The guarantees continue until the

72

Table of Contents   

loans, including accrued interest and fees, have been paid in
    full. The Company s maximum exposure under this commitment
    is disclosed in the table below and is limited to the sum of
    unpaid principal and interest, as well as other related
    expenses. These amounts will vary based on fluctuations in the
    yen foreign exchange rate.

Starbucks has commitments under which it unconditionally
    guarantees its proportionate share of certain borrowings of
    unconsolidated equity investees. The Company s maximum
    exposure under these commitments disclosed in the table below
    excludes interest and other related costs. The fair value of
    these guarantees is included in Equity and cost investments and
    Other accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets.

The following table presents information on unconditional
    guarantees as of September 27, 2009  (in millions) :

(1)  

Since there has been no modification of these loan guarantees
    subsequent to the Company s adoption of accounting
    requirements for guarantees, Starbucks has applied the
    disclosure provisions only and has not recorded the guarantees
    on its consolidated balance sheets. 

Legal
    Proceedings   

On October 8, 2004, a former hourly employee of the Company
    filed a lawsuit in San Diego County Superior Court entitled
     Jou Chau v. Starbucks Coffee Company . The lawsuit
    alleged that the Company violated the California Labor Code by
    allowing shift supervisors to receive tips. More specifically,
    the lawsuit alleged that since shift supervisors direct the work
    of baristas, they qualify as  agents  of the Company
    and are therefore excluded from receiving tips under California
    Labor Code Section 351, which prohibits employers and their
    agents from collecting or receiving tips left by patrons for
    other employees. The lawsuit further alleges that because the
    tipping practices violated the Labor Code, they were unfair
    practices under the California Unfair Competition Law. On
    February 28, 2008, the trial court ruled against the
    Company in the liability phase of the trial and on
    March 20, 2008 the court ordered the Company to pay
    approximately $87 million in restitution, plus interest.
    The Company appealed the decision of the trial court and on
    June 2, 2009 the California Court of Appeal reversed the
    trial court s judgment in its entirety and ruled in favor
    of Starbucks. The Court of Appeal denied plaintiffs 
    petition for rehearing and reaffirmed its ruling on July 2,
    2009. The plaintiffs filed a petition for review with the
    California Supreme Court on July 13, 2009. The California
    Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for review. The
    trial court has been ordered to enter judgment for Starbucks and
    dismiss the case.

On June 30, 2005, three individuals, Erik Lords, Hon Yeung,
    and Donald Brown filed a lawsuit in Orange County Superior
    Court, California. The lawsuit alleged that the Company violated
    the California Labor Code section 432.8 by asking job
    applicants to disclose at the time of application convictions
    for marijuana related offenses more than two years old. The
    California Court of Appeal issued a ruling on December 10,
    2008 instructing the trial judge to enter summary judgment
    against plaintiffs and the California Supreme Court has rejected
    the plaintiffs  appeal. The matter is now back before the
    trial court awaiting final dismissal.

The Company is party to various other legal proceedings arising
    in the ordinary course of its business, but it is not currently
    a party to any legal proceeding that management believes would
    have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
    position or results of operations of the Company.

Note 18:    

Segment
    Reporting  

Segment information is prepared on the same basis that the
    Company s management reviews financial information for
    operational decision making purposes. Starbucks has three
    reportable operating segments: US, International and CPG. In the
    fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, the Company changed the
    composition of its reportable segments. The US foodservice
    business, which was previously reported in the US segment, is
    now reported in the CPG segment, as a

73

Table of Contents   

result of internal management realignments within the US and CPG
    businesses. Segment information for all prior periods presented
    has been revised to reflect this change.

United
    States   

The Company s US operations represent 80% of total
    Company-operated retail revenues, 33% of total specialty
    revenues and 73% of total net revenues for fiscal year 2009. US
    operations sell coffee and other beverages, complementary food,
    whole bean coffees, and coffee brewing equipment and merchandise
    primarily through Company-operated retail stores. Specialty
    operations within the US include licensed retail stores, and
    other initiatives related to the Company s core business.

International   

The Company s International operations represent the
    remaining 20% of Company-operated retail revenues and 20% of
    total specialty revenues as well as 19% of total net revenues
    for fiscal year 2009. International operations sell coffee and
    other beverages, complementary food, whole bean coffees, and
    coffee brewing equipment and merchandise through
    Company-operated retail stores in the UK, Canada and several
    other markets. Specialty operations in International primarily
    include retail store licensing operations in nearly 40 countries
    and foodservice accounts, primarily in Canada and the UK. Many
    of the Company s International operations are in early
    stages of development that require a more extensive support
    organization, relative to the current levels of revenue and
    operating income, than in the US.

Global
    Consumer Products Group   

The Company s CPG segment represents 47% of total specialty
    revenues and 8% of total net revenues for fiscal year 2009. CPG
    operations sell a selection of whole bean and ground coffees as
    well as a selection of premium
    Tazo   

    teas through licensing arrangements in US and international
    markets. CPG operations also produce and sell
     ready-to-drink 
    beverages which include, among others, bottled
    Frappuccino   

    beverages, Starbucks
    DoubleShot   

    espresso drinks, and
    Discoveries   

    chilled cup coffee, as well as
    Starbucks   

    super-premium ice creams through its marketing and distribution
    agreements and joint ventures. The US foodservice business sells
    coffee and other related products to institutional foodservice
    companies with the majority of its sales through national
    broadline distribution networks.

Unallocated Corporate includes expenses pertaining to corporate
    administrative functions that support the operating segments but
    are not specifically attributable to or managed by any segment
    and are not included in the reported financial results of the
    operating segments. These unallocated corporate expenses include
    certain general and administrative expenses, related
    depreciation and amortization expenses, restructuring charges
    and amounts included in Net interest income and other and
    Interest expense on the consolidated statements of earnings.

The Company s revenue mix by product type was as follows
     (in millions) :

(1)  

Other includes royalty and licensing revenues, beverage-related
    accessories and equipment. 

74

Table of Contents   

The tables below represent information by geographic area ( in
    millions ):

No customer accounts for 10% or more of the Company s
    revenues. Revenues are shown based on the geographic location of
    the customers. Revenues from countries other than the US consist
    primarily of revenues from Canada and the UK, which together
    account for approximately 66% of net revenues from other
    countries for fiscal 2009.

Management evaluates the performance of its operating segments
    based on net revenues and operating income. The accounting
    policies of the operating segments are the same as those
    described in the summary of significant accounting policies in
    Note 1. Operating income represents earnings before Net
    interest income and other, Interest expense and Income taxes.
    Management does not evaluate the performance of its operating
    segments using asset measures. The identifiable assets by
    segment disclosed in this note are those assets specifically
    identifiable with each segment and include net property, plant
    and equipment, equity and cost investments, goodwill, and other
    intangible assets. Corporate assets are primarily comprised of
    cash and investments, assets of the corporate headquarters and
    roasting facilities, and inventory. The methodology used to
    identify specific assets with the segments in fiscal 2009 was
    applied to the fiscal 2008 and 2007 amounts disclosed below.

75

Table of Contents   

The table below presents information by operating segment for
    the fiscal years noted  (in millions) :

The table below reconciles the total of the reportable
    segments  operating income to the Company s
    consolidated earnings before income taxes  (in millions) :

76

Table of Contents   

Note 19:    

Subsequent
    Event  

On September 30, 2009, Starbucks acquired 100 percent
    ownership of the Company s business in France, converting
    it from a 50% joint venture with Sigla S.A. (Grupo Vips) of
    Spain to a Company-operated market. Starbucks simultaneously
    sold its 50% ownership interests in the Spain and Portugal
    markets to Grupo Vips, converting them to licensed markets.

Note 20:    

Summarized
    Quarterly Financial Information (unaudited, in millions, except
    EPS)  

(1)  

Includes pretax restructuring charges of $75.5 million,
    $152.1 million, $51.6 million and $53.2 million
    for the first, second, third and fourth fiscal quarters
    respectively. 

(2)  

Includes pretax restructuring charges of $167.7 million and
    $99.2 million for the third and fourth fiscal quarters,
    respectively. 

77

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Starbucks
    Corporation

Seattle, Washington

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company )
    as of September 27, 2009 and September 28, 2008, and
    the related consolidated statements of earnings,
    shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended September 27, 2009. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 27,
    2009 and September 28, 2008, and the results of their
    operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
    the period ended September 27, 2009, in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    September 27, 2009, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    and our report dated November 20, 2009 expressed an
    unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington

November 20, 2009

78

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

Not applicable.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures  

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that
    are designed to ensure that material information required to be
    disclosed in the Company s periodic reports filed or
    submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (the  Exchange Act ), is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
    SEC s rules and forms. Starbucks disclosure controls and
    procedures are also designed to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed in the reports the Company files or submits
    under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer as appropriate, to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 the Company carried out
    an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation
    of the Company s management, including the chief executive
    officer and the chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of
    the design and operation of the disclosure controls and
    procedures, as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, the
    Company s chief executive officer and chief financial
    officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls
    and procedures were effective, as of the end of the period
    covered by this report (September 27, 2009).

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, there were no changes
    in the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f)  of
    the Exchange Act) that materially affected or are reasonably
    likely to materially affect internal control over financial
    reporting.

The certifications required by Section 302 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as exhibits 31.1 and
    31.2, respectively, to this
     10-K. 

Report of
    Management on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting  

The management of Starbucks is responsible for establishing and
    maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
    Internal control over financial reporting is a process to
    provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the
    Company s financial reporting for external purposes in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States of America. Internal control over financial
    reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail
    accurately and fairly reflect the Company s transactions;
    providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
    necessary for preparation of the Company s financial
    statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and
    expenditures are made in accordance with management
    authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that
    unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of company assets
    that could have a material effect on the Company s
    financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely
    basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
    over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute
    assurance that a misstatement of the Company s financial
    statements would be prevented or detected.

Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on the framework and criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework , issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. This evaluation included review of the documentation
    of controls, evaluation of the design effectiveness of controls,
    testing of the operating effectiveness of controls and a
    conclusion on this evaluation. Based on this evaluation,
    management concluded that the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting was effective as of September 27,
    2009.

The Company s internal control over financial reporting as
    of September 27, 2009, has been audited by
    Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is
    included herein.

79

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Starbucks
    Corporation

Seattle, Washington

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries (the  Company )
    as of September 27, 2009, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of
    Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of September 27, 2009, based on the criteria established in
    Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year
    ended September 27, 2009, of the Company and our report
    dated November 20, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on
    those financial statements.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

Seattle, Washington

November 20, 2009

80

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

PART III  

As used in this Part III,  Starbucks  and the
     Company  mean Starbucks Corporation.

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information required by this item regarding the
    Company s directors is incorporated herein by reference to
    the sections entitled  Proposal 1   Election
    Of Directors  and  Executive Compensation  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  and  Corporate Governance
      Board Committees and Related Matters  in the
    Company s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
    of Shareholders to be held on March 24, 2010 (the
     Proxy Statement ). Information regarding the
    Company s executive officers is set forth in Item 4 of
    Part 1 of this Report under the caption  Executive
    Officers of the Registrant. 

The Company adopted a code of ethics applicable to its chief
    executive officer, chief financial officer, controller and other
    finance leaders, which is a  code of ethics  as
    defined by applicable rules of the SEC. This code is publicly
    available on the Company s website at
    www.starbucks.com/aboutus/corporate_governance.asp. If the
    Company makes any amendments to this code other than technical,
    administrative or other non-substantive amendments, or grants
    any waivers, including implicit waivers, from a provision of
    this code to the Company s chief executive officer, chief
    financial officer or controller, the Company will disclose the
    nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date and to
    whom it applies on its website or in a report on
     Form 8-K 
    filed with the SEC.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Executive
    Compensation  and  Corporate Governance  
    Compensation Committee  in the Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Shareholder Matters   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Beneficial Ownership of
    Common Stock  and  Executive Compensation  
    Equity Compensation Plan Information  in the Proxy
    Statement.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the section entitled  Executive
    Compensation   Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  
    Affirmative Determinations Regarding Director Independence and
    Other Matters  in the Proxy Statement.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm Fees  and  Policy on Audit
    Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit
    Services of the Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm  in the Proxy Statement.

81

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this
     10-K: 

1.    

Financial
    Statements  

The following financial statements are included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     10-K: 

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

Financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not
    required or are not applicable, or the required information is
    provided in the consolidated financial statements or notes
    described in Item 15(a)(1) above.

The Exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits, which appears
    immediately following the signature page and is incorporated
    herein by reference, are filed as part of this
     10-K. 

82

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has
    duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
    undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

STARBUCKS CORPORATION 

By: 

/s/  Howard
    Schultz

Howard Schultz

chairman, president and chief executive officer

November 20, 2009

POWER OF
    ATTORNEY  

Know all persons by these presents, that each person whose
    signature appears below constitutes and appoints Howard Schultz
    and Troy Alstead, and each of them, as such person s true
    and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of
    substitution and resubstitution, for such person and in such
    person s name, place and stead, in any and all capacities,
    to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and to file the
    same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in
    connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and
    each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
    and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in
    connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as
    such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
    confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of
    them or their or such person s substitute or substitutes,
    may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the
    following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
    capacities indicated as of November 20, 2009.

Signature 

Title 

By:

/s/  Howard
    Schultz

Howard
    Schultz

chairman, president and chief executive officer

By:

/s/  Troy
    Alstead

Troy
    Alstead

executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
    administrative officer (principal financial officer and
    principal accounting officer)

By:

/s/  Barbara
    Bass

Barbara
    Bass

director

By:

/s/  William
    W. Bradley

William
    W. Bradley

director

By:

/s/  Mellody
    Hobson

Mellody
    Hobson

director

By:

/s/  Kevin
    Johnson

Kevin
    Johnson

director

83

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

By:

/s/  Olden
    Lee

Olden
    Lee

director

By:

/s/  Sheryl
    Sandberg

Sheryl
    Sandberg

director

By:

/s/  James
    G. Shennan Jr.

James
    G. Shennan Jr.

director

By:

/s/  Javier
    G. Teruel

Javier
    G. Teruel

director

By:

/s/  Myron
    E. Ullman III

Myron
    E. Ullman III

director

By:

/s/  Craig
    E. Weatherup

Craig
    E. Weatherup

director

84

Table of Contents   

INDEX TO
    EXHIBITS  

85

Table of Contents   

86

Table of Contents   

87

Table of Contents   

Incorporated by Reference 

Exhibit 

Date of 

Exhibit 

Filed 

Number 

Exhibit Description 

Form 

File No. 

First Filing 

Number 

Herewith 

31

.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, As Adopted Pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

31

.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14 
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, As Adopted Pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

X

32

Certifications of Principal Executive Officer and Principal
    Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 USC. Section 1350, As
    Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002

X

*  

Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or
    arrangement. 

88

<EX-12>
 2
 v53316exv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12

Starbucks Corporation 
COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
( in millions, except ratios )

(1)  
       
     Earnings represent income from continuing operations before provision for income
taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change. 

(2)  
       
     Includes amortization of debt-related expenses and interest capitalized during the
period. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 v53316exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21

SUBSIDIARIES OF STARBUCKS CORPORATION 

The list below excludes certain subsidiaries which, considered in the aggregate as a single
subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary under SEC rules as of September 27, 2009.

Coffee House Holdings, Inc. (a Washington corporation)

Olympic Casualty Insurance Company (a Vermont corporation)

SCI UK I, Inc. (a Washington corporation)

Seattle Coffee Company (a Georgia corporation)      Seattle s Best Coffee LLC (a Washington limited liability company)      Torrefazione Italia LLC (a Washington limited liability company)

Starbucks
Brazil Commercio de Cafes Ltda. (a Brazilian corporation)

Starbucks Capital Asset Leasing Company, LLC (a Delaware limited liability company)

Starbucks Coffee Company (Australia) Pty. Ltd. (an Australian corporation)

Starbucks Coffee Canada, Inc. (a Canadian corporation)

Starbucks Coffee Holdings (UK) Limited (a UK corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Company (UK) Limited (a UK corporation) 
     Torz   Macatonia Limited (a UK corporation)

Starbucks Coffee International, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
     Alki Limited Partnership (a UK limited partnership) 
               Starbucks Coffee EMEA B.V. (a Dutch private limited liability company) 
                    Starbucks Manufacturing EMEA B.V. (a Dutch private limited liability company) 
                    Starbucks-Marinopoulos SEE B.V. (a Dutch private limited liability company) 
                         Marinopoulos Coffee Company III S.R.L. (a Romanian limited liability company) 
                         Marinopoulos Coffee Company Bulgaria EOOD (a Bulgarian limited liability company) 
                    Starbucks Coffee Deutschland GmbH (a German corporation) 
                    Starbucks Coffee Company (Ireland) Limited (an Irish corporation) 
     AmRest Coffee s.r.o. (a Czech Repulic limited liability company) 
     AmRest Coffee Sp. z.o.o. (a Polish limited liability company) 
     AmRest Kavezo Kft. (a Hungarian limited liability company) 
     Berjaya Starbucks Coffee Company Sdn. Bhd. (a Malaysian corporation) 
     Caf  Sirena S. de R. L. de C.V. (a Mexican limited liability company) 
     Coffee Concepts (Hong Kong) Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Coffee Concepts (Macau) Limited (a Macau corporation) 
     Coffee Concepts (Southern China) Ltd. (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Coffee Concepts (Guangdong) Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
          Coffee Concepts (Shenzhen) Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
     Marinopoulos Coffee Company Cyprus Limited (a Cyprian corporation) 
     Marinopoulos Coffee Company S.A. (a Greek corporation) 
     President Coffee (Cayman) Holdings Ltd. (a Cayman Islands corporation) 
          Shanghai President Coffee Co. (a Chinese corporation) 
     President Starbucks Coffee Taiwan Limited (a Taiwanese corporation) 
     Rain City C.V. (a Dutch limited partnership) 
          Emerald City C.V. (a Dutch Limited Partnership) 
               High Grown Investment Group (Hong Kong) Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
                    Beijing Starbucks Coffee Company Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee Trading Company S rl (a Swiss corporation)

Starbucks Coffee Agronomy Company S.R.L. (a Costa Rican S.R.L.) 
               Starbucks Farmer Support Center Rwanda Sarl (a Rwandan corporation) 
               Starbucks Farmer Support Center Ethiopia PLC (an Ethiopian limited liability company) 
     SBI Nevada, Inc. (a Nevada corporation) 
     SCI Investment, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee Puerto Rico, LLC (a Delaware corporation) 
     SCI Europe I, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
     SCI Europe II, Inc. (a Washington corporation) 
     SCI Ventures, S.L. (a Spanish limited liability company) 
          Starbucks Coffee Japan, Ltd. (a Japanese corporation) 
     Shaya Coffee Limited (a Cypriot corporation) 
          Koffee Sirena LLC (a Russian limited liability company) 
     Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Qingdao American Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee (Dalian) Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks Coffee (Liaoning) Co., Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
     Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding II Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Starbucks (China) Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Starbucks (Shanghai) Supply Chain Co., Ltd. (a Chinese corporation) 
     Starbucks Asia Pacific Investment Holding III Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
          Chengdu Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Hubei Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
          Xi an Starbucks Coffee Company Limited (a Chinese corporation) 
     Starbucks Card Europe Limited (a UK corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Argentina S.R.L. (an Argentine corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Asia Pacific Limited (a Hong Kong corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Chile S.A. (a Chilean corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee France S.A.S. (a French corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Korea Co., Ltd. (a South Korean corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Singapore Pte. Ltd. (a Singapore corporation) 
     Starbucks-Marinopoulos Holdings B.V. (a Netherlands private limited liability company) 
     Starbucks Coffee Austria GmbH (an Austrian corporation) 
     Starbucks Coffee Switzerland A.G. (a Swiss corporation)

Starbucks Coffee (Thailand) Ltd. (a Thailand corporation)

Starbucks CPG International G.K. (a Japanese corporation)

Starbucks Holding Company (a Washington corporation)

Starbucks Manufacturing Corporation (a Washington corporation)

Starbucks New Venture Company (a Washington corporation) 
     North American Coffee Partnership (a New York limited partnership)

Urban Coffee Opportunities, LLC (a Washington limited liability company)

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 v53316exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-52526, 33-52528,
33-92208, 33-92184, 333-65181, 333-94987, 333-37442, 333-70648, 333-101806, 333-114090, 333-123688,
and 333-142878 on Form S-8, and 333-145572 on Form S-3 of our reports dated November 20, 2009,
relating to the consolidated financial statements of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries and the
effectiveness of Starbucks Corporation and subsidiaries  internal control over financial reporting,
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Starbucks Corporation for the year ended September
27, 2009.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
Seattle, Washington 
November 20, 2009

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 v53316exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Howard Schultz, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2009
of Starbucks Corporation (the  Registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

November 20, 2009  
     /s/ Howard Schultz

Howard Schultz  

chairman, president and chief executive officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 v53316exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Troy Alstead, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 27, 2009
of Starbucks Corporation (the  Registrant  

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

November 20, 2009  
     /s/ Troy Alstead

Troy Alstead  

executive vice president, chief financial officer and 
chief administrative officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 7
 v53316exv32.htm
 EX-32

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 USC. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the Annual Report of Starbucks Corporation ( Starbucks ) on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended September 27, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
November 20, 2009 (the  Report ), Howard Schultz, Chairman, president and chief executive officer
of Starbucks, and Troy Alstead, executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief
administrative officer of Starbucks, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 USC. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to his knowledge:

(1) 
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of Starbucks. 

November 20, 2009

/s/ Howard Schultz

Howard Schultz

chairman, president and chief executive officer 

November 20, 2009

/s/ Troy Alstead 

Troy Alstead 

executive vice president, chief financial officer and 

chief administrative officer 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 8
 sbux-20090927.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 9
 sbux-20090927.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 10
 sbux-20090927_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 11
 sbux-20090927_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 12
 sbux-20090927_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 sbux-20090927_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

