<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180227_10-K_edgar_data_51143_0001047469-18-001117_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>38496329</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>655766</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1309476</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>10463097</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>16185243</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>7978880</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>176</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-18-001117.hdr.sgml : 20180227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180227171357
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-18-001117
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		186
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000051143
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT [3570]
		IRS NUMBER:				130871985
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02360
		FILM NUMBER:		18646342

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD ROAD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9144991900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD RD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-18-001117.txt : 20180227

10-K
 1
 a2233835z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K       ANNUAL REPORT 
pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017     

     1-2360       (Commission file number)   

    INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

914-499-1900       (Registrant's telephone number)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an
emerging growth company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," "smaller reporting company" and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-Accelerated filer      

Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Emerging growth company      

If
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting
standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
Yes        No       

            The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed
second fiscal quarter was $143.3 billion.   

  Documents
incorporated by reference:   

            Portions
of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2017 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form 10-K.   

Portions
of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held April 24, 2018 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.   

PART I            

Item 1. Business:     

          International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the
Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM
has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 90 years ago, in 1924, when
C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today the company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage
data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities
for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT
implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software; all bolstered by one of the world's leading research organizations.   

Strategy     

The IBM strategy starts with its clients.   

          As
a uniquely integrated technology and services company, IBM helps clients change the way the world works by building smarter businesses.   

          IBM's
clients include many of the world's most successful enterprises. These clients are at an inflection point, facing tremendous new opportunity and incredible competition. Digital
technologies are unlocking unparalleled insight from previously inaccessible data. Work processes are being reimagined for speed and vastly smarter decision-making.   

To
win in these disruptive times requires that businesses learn learn by extracting insights from their data and by applying those insights to how work is done. Smarter
businesses do this faster and more effectively supported by IBM's combination of    Innovative Technology   ,    Industry Expertise     and    Trust
and Security   .   

          The
company's capabilities include:   

Cloud     

          Cloud is enabling the emergence of platforms through standardization, agility and innovation in both IT and business processes. Enterprise cloud
is very different from consumer cloud: enterprises must bridge together mission-critical assets from on-premise systems with private cloud and public cloud. Hybrid cloud technology provides that
bridge. All three must coexist and interoperate as a single platform.   

          The
IBM Cloud is uniquely:  

Built for all applications: Applications require data. That data is in on-premise systems, in private clouds and in the public cloud. The IBM
Cloud enables one data platform that, regardless of data's location, can run all applications. IBM's hybrid cloud capabilities make this single platform operate seamlessly.    
            Artificial intelligence (AI)-ready: The IBM Cloud is built from the ground up to handle the demanding data and computational requirements
of AI.  
            Secure to the Core: IBM has a long history of helping clients keep data and transactions secure. Security is even more important in an
increasingly connected world, and IBM has extended this unparalleled level of security to the cloud. For example, IBM's cybersecurity offerings act as a business immune system, with AI technology at
its core, delivered from the IBM Cloud. These    
 
  1  

systems
help to defend and respond to cyber-attacks across an organization's data, applications, mobile and endpoint devices.   

The
IBM Cloud is delivered with leading edge technology, including:  

Modern infrastructure: IBM's systems, including servers, storage and operating system software, have been refreshed and redesigned for cloud
and enterprise AI workloads. IBM's new z14 is the world's first system to offer pervasive encryption of data without requiring changes to applications, and with no performance degradation. With IBM's
systems, clients can build an IT infrastructure that is optimized for the scalability, reliability and growth that businesses need in today's data-driven
world.  
            Future infrastructure: The Q Network on the IBM Cloud enables clients around the world to explore quantum computing capabilities. IBM is the
leader in quantum computing. Clients are signing on to explore how to overcome foreseen constraints in traditional computing models.    

AI and Data     

          Artificial intelligence can help clients extract insight and make intelligent decisions from data. Like cloud, enterprise AI is very different
from consumer AI. Enterprise applications deal with more complex use cases that benefit from expert knowledge, such as in healthcare or in the identification of business risk. Enterprise AI
applications are trained by expert data, through data sets of all sizes and with more specialization than those in the general-knowledge consumer world. IBM AI through the Watson
platform:  

Learns more from less data: The ability to extract deep insights from both large and small data sets is essential for enterprise applications.
Watson excels at this and can produce more insights with less data than other AI systems. That means clients can get started more quickly and begin to gain experience deploying AI in the enterprise.    
            Protects clients' insights: While Watson builds on cumulative experience and knowledge, IBM recognizes that data and insights are clients' most
important assets and a true competitive advantage. Watson is built to safeguard this type of information.  
            Reimagines your workflows: Watson has been built for and trained in areas requiring deep expertise. Watson brings AI to
professionals so that work can be done more efficiently, and even more importantly, can improve as the systems learn from the data.    

Solutions     

          Creating smarter businesses requires reimagining a company's core processes for example, in healthcare, managing risk or optimizing
a supply chain. In addition to building solutions based on IBM's experience, IBM is also creating a series of AI solutions cognitive solutions that embed artificial
intelligence and data to change how work is done. Examples include:  

Global Industry Platforms: provides cognitive, analytics, security and cloud technology in comprehensive industry-specific platforms to remove
much of the cost and complexity of delivering core business functions. For example: Banking, wealth management, and insurance are some of the areas poised for dramatic change by using cognitive and AI
solutions from IBM Watson Financial Services. Watson Health provides technology and expertise to empower leaders, advocates and influencers in health to accelerate discovery, make essential
connections and gain confidence on their path to solving the world's biggest health challenges.   
            Blockchain Solutions: IBM is working with clients and developers across multiple industries to use blockchain to transform how business is done
in areas such as banking and financial services and supply chain. For example, blockchain technology can be used to digitize global trade    
 
  2  

processes,
providing a more efficient and secure method of moving goods across borders and trading zones.  

Watson IoT: includes both a cloud-based platform and industry solutions infused with AI, helping organizations mine intelligence from billions
of connected devices.    

Enterprise Services     

          Through Global Business Services and Global Technology Services, IBM has helped the world's most successful enterprises transition from era to
era. Using proven methods, IBM Services bring globally delivered outcomes using proven methods by focusing on:  

Digital Reinvention for growth: a unique framework for business transformation focused on growth opportunities.    
            End-to-end Services integration: Global Technology Services brings the ability to connect previously disconnected parts of an organization. By
embedding Watson into these mission critical services, new levels of quality, resiliency and automation are achieved.  
            Pragmatic journey to Cloud and AI: Global Business Services brings its deep experience when guiding clients through the journey to cloud and
AI. Clients gain from the thorough understanding of technology and the best ways to utilize it.    

As
clients reinvent their businesses to be smarter, they need all of this to work together. This is what they expect from IBM, what they need from IBM and what sets IBM apart.   

  *                *                *        
        *   

          Responsible
stewardship is an enduring principle that underscores all IBM endeavors. While IBM is constantly ushering in new technology it does so
by:  

Leading in data responsibility, ethics and transparency;   
            Preparing workforces of the world;   
            Continuing the company's century-long commitment to diversity and inclusion, and  
            Remaining grounded in a set of enduring IBM Values:    

Dedication to every client's success     
            Innovation that matters for our company and for the world    
            Trust and personal responsibility in all relationships    

IBM
has built a reputation and track record of trust with its clients for more than a century. IBM safeguards a client's privacy, data and insights. For example, IBM was one of the first
companies to appoint a Chief Privacy Officer, to develop and publish a genetics privacy policy, to be certified under the APEC Cross Borders Privacy Rules system and to sign the EU Data Protection
Code of Conduct for Cloud Service Providers.   

  *                *                *        
        *

This
is an era where being faster, more productive and lower cost is important but frankly not enough. To win, a business must be smarter: Being smarter means having deeper expertise,
extracting better insights from data and being capable of rapidly changing the way in which one does work.   

          This
is core to the strategy of IBM's clients and is at the heart of the IBM strategy.   

Business Model     

          The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to move from one era to the next by bringing
together innovative technology and industry expertise, and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through   

  3  

strategic
investments in capabilities and technologies that have long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.   

          The
company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide
integrated solutions and platforms to the company's clients.   

          The
business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including the company's transformation into cloud and as-a-Service delivery
models. The company continues to strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas, broadening its industry expertise and integrating AI into more of
what the company offers. In addition, the company is transforming into a more agile enterprise to drive innovation and
speed, as well as helping to drive productivity, which supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity.   

This
business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term.   

Business Segments and Capabilities     

          The company's major operations consist of five business segments: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services  
Cloud Platforms, Systems and Global Financing.   

             Cognitive Solutions    comprises a broad portfolio of capabilities that help IBM's clients to identify actionable new insights and inform
decision-making for competitive advantage. Leveraging IBM's research, technology and industry expertise, this business delivers a full spectrum of capabilities, from descriptive, predictive and
prescriptive analytics to cognitive systems. Cognitive Solutions includes Watson, the first commercially available AI platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, process vast
amounts of big data, and learn from interactions with people and systems. These solutions are provided through the most contemporary delivery methods including through cloud environments and
"as-a-Service" models. Cognitive Solutions consists of Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software.   

Cognitive Solutions Capabilities     

          Solutions Software: provides the basis for many of the company's strategic areas. IBM has established the world's deepest portfolio of data and
analytics solutions, including analytics and data management platforms, cloud data services, talent management solutions, and solutions tailored by industry. Watson Platform, Watson Health and Watson
Internet of Things (IoT) are certain capabilities included in Solutions Software. IBM's world-class security platform delivers integrated security intelligence across clients' entire operations,
including their cloud, applications, networks and data, helping them to prevent, detect and remediate potential threats.   

Transaction
Processing Software: includes software that primarily runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail. Most of this software is on-premise
and annuity in nature.   

             Global Business Services (GBS)    provides clients with consulting, application management services and business process services. These
professional services deliver value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry, technology and business strategy and process expertise. GBS is the digital reinvention partner
for IBM clients, combining industry knowledge, functional expertise, and applications with the power of business design and cognitive and cloud technologies. The full portfolio of GBS services is
backed by its globally integrated delivery network and integration with technologies, solutions and services from IBM units including IBM Watson, IBM Cloud, IBM Research, and Global Technology
Services.   

  4  

In
2017, GBS deployed a new operating model designed to address specific client digital transformation imperatives and take full advantage of IBM and GBS's competitive differentiators in
industry, cognitive and cloud. The operating model features Digital Strategy and iX, Cognitive Process Transformation and Cloud Application Innovation. To bring value at scale to clients around the
world, GBS has implemented global service lines within each of the three focus areas, which are populated with new practices staffed by practitioners with deep domain skills and industry expertise.   

GBS Capabilities     

          Consulting: provides business consulting services focused on bringing to market solutions that help clients shape their digital blueprints and
customer experiences, define their cognitive operating models, unlock the potential in all data to improve decision-making, set their next-generation talent strategies and create new technology
architectures in a cloud-centric world.   

          Application
Management: delivers system integration, application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is
delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as security and privacy, application testing and modernization, cloud application migration and automation.   

          Global
Process Services: delivers finance, procurement, talent and engagement, and industry-specific business process outsourcing services. These services deliver improved business
results to clients through our consult-to-operate model which includes the strategic change and/or operation of the client's processes, applications and infrastructure. GBS is redefining process
services for both growth and efficiency through the application of the power of cognitive technologies like Watson, as well as the IoT, blockchain and deep analytics.   

             Technology Services   Cloud Platforms    provides comprehensive IT infrastructure services creating business value for clients. By
leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services with
improved outcomes in productivity, flexibility and cost.   

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms Capabilities     

          Infrastructure Services: delivers a portfolio of cloud, project-based, outsourcing and other managed services focused on clients' enterprise IT
infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation and deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The portfolio includes a comprehensive set of hybrid cloud
services and solutions to assist clients in building and running enterprise IT environments that utilize public and private clouds and traditional IT. The IBM Cloud Platform offers leading-edge
services to developers and IBM's Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service covers a wide variety of workloads with high-quality performance. These offerings integrate long-standing expertise in service
management and technology with the ability to utilize the power of new technologies, drawn from across IBM's businesses and ecosystem partners. The portfolio is built around a key set of predictive
and proactive solutions addressing systems, mobility, resiliency, networking, cloud and security. The company's capabilities, including IBM Cloud, cognitive computing and hybrid cloud implementation,
provide high-performance, end-to-end innovation and an improved ability to achieve business objectives.   

          Technical
Support Services: delivers comprehensive support services to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT infrastructures. These offerings include maintenance for IBM
products and other technology platforms, as well as software and solution support, drawing on innovative technologies and leveraging the Watson platform's predictive capabilities.   

Integration
Software: delivers industry-leading hybrid cloud solutions that empower clients to achieve rapid innovation, hybrid integration, and process transformation with choice and
consistency across public, dedicated and local cloud environments, leveraging the IBM Platform-as-a-Service solution. Integration Software offerings and capabilities help clients address the digital
imperatives to   

  5  

create,
connect and optimize their applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses.   

Systems    provides clients with innovative infrastructure platforms to help meet the new requirements of hybrid cloud and cognitive
workloads. Approximately half of Systems Hardware's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners, with the balance direct to end-user clients. IBM Systems also
designs advanced semiconductor and systems technology in collaboration with IBM Research, primarily for use in the company's systems.   

Systems Capabilities     

          Servers: a range of high-performance systems designed to address computing capacity, security and performance needs of businesses, hyperscale
cloud service providers and scientific computing organizations. The portfolio includes IBM Z, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight, and Power Systems, a system
designed from the ground up for big data and analytics, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER.   

          Storage:
data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information and to fuel data-centric cognitive
applications. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and
virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software-defined storage solutions, flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions.   

Operating
Systems Software: The company's z/OS is a security-rich, scalable, high-performance enterprise operating system for IBM Z. Power Systems offers a choice of AIX or Linux
operating systems. These operating systems leverage POWER architecture to deliver secure, reliable and high performing enterprise-class workloads across a breadth of server offerings.   

             Global Financing    encompasses two primary businesses: financing, primarily conducted through IBM Credit LLC (IBM Credit), and
remanufacturing and remarketing. In 2017, the company reorganized its client and commercial financing business as a wholly owned subsidiary, IBM Credit LLC, and it began accessing the capital
markets directly in September 2017. IBM Credit, through its financing solutions, facilitates IBM clients' acquisition of information technology systems, software and services in the areas
where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users' business operations. The company conducts a comprehensive
credit evaluation of its clients prior to extending financing. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products
and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks associated with financing, credit and residual value, while generating strong returns on equity.
Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with the company's clients through various stages of the IT asset life cycle from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset
disposition decisions.   

Global Financing Capabilities     

          Client Financing: lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets
financed are primarily new and used IT hardware, software and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Technology Services   Cloud Platforms'
long-term client service contracts. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions.   

Commercial
Financing: short-term working capital financing to suppliers, distributors and resellers of IBM and OEM products and services. This includes internal activity where Global
Financing factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable primarily for cash management purposes, at arm's-length rates.   

  6  

Remanufacturing
and Remarketing: assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used and surplus equipment acquired internally or externally. These assets may be
refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers.
Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms. Systems may also sell the equipment
that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients.   

IBM Worldwide Organizations     

          The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:  

Global Markets  
            Research, Development and Intellectual Property    

Global Markets     

          IBM has a global presence, operating in more than 175 countries with a broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Global
Markets organization manages IBM's global footprint, working closely with dedicated country-based operating units to serve clients locally. These country teams have client relationship managers who
lead integrated teams of consultants, solution specialists and delivery professionals to enable clients' growth and innovation.   

          By
complementing local expertise with global experience and digital capabilities, IBM builds deep and broad-based client relationships. This local management focus fosters speed in
supporting clients, addressing new markets and making investments in emerging opportunities. The Global Markets organization serves clients with expertise in their industry as well as through the
products and services that IBM and partners supply. IBM is also expanding its reach to new and existing clients through digital marketplaces, digital sales and local Business Partner resources.   

Research, Development and Intellectual Property     

          IBM's research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests 7 to 8 percent of
total revenue for R D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through global labs on near-term and mid-term innovations. It
delivers many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research scientists are conducting pioneering work in artificial
intelligence, quantum computing, blockchain, security, cloud, nanotechnology, silicon and post-silicon computing architectures and more applying these technologies across industries
including healthcare, IoT, education and financial services.   

          In
2017, for the 25th consecutive year, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company. IBM's 9,043 patents awarded in 2017 represent a diverse range of inventions in
artificial intelligence, cloud, cybersecurity and other strategic growth areas for the company.   

The
company continues to actively seek IP protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership. Some of IBM's
technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. As part of its business model, the
company licenses certain of its intellectual property, which is high-value technology, but may be in more mature markets. The licensee drives the future development of the IP and ultimately expands
the customer base. This would generate IP income for the company both upon licensing, and with any ongoing royalty arrangements between it and the licensee. While the company's various proprietary IP
rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or
is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products.   

  7  

COMPETITION     

          The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 175 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive
environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the
company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide.   

          Across
its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and
services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and
integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic
investments, partnerships and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it has entered into new markets, such as cloud and cognitive, including business analytics and
"as-a-service" solutions, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments.   

A
summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:   

Cognitive Solutions:      

          The Cognitive Solutions segment leads the burgeoning market for artificial intelligence infused software solutions. Increasingly, technology
companies are looking to implement software solutions that will take advantage of the massive amounts of data businesses hold in order to improve business outcomes for their clients. The Watson
platform is integrated throughout the Cognitive Solutions segment. Watson is the first commercially available cognitive computing capability, representing a new era in computing. Delivered through the
cloud, the platform analyzes data, understands complex questions posed in natural language, and proposes evidence-based answers. Watson continuously learns in three ways: by being taught by its users,
by learning from prior interactions, and by being presented with new information.   

          The
segment's key competitive factors include a wide range of powerful Watson AI services machine learning to deep learning. IBM is unique in that it allows clients to retain
ownership of their data and AI insights, trains with small specialized data sets, and is focused on embedding AI into business workflows. The insights produced by IBM's cognitive systems are trained
and designed for specific industries including Health, Financial Services, Education, Retail and others.   

Specifically,
Cognitive Solutions includes solutions software, delivered both on-premise and "as-a-Service", and transaction processing software. The solutions software portfolio, which
spans data management, analytics, security, and social capabilities, provides comprehensive business and industry-specific offerings to IT decision makers. IT buyers include chief information officers
as well as line of business buyers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security officers and chief financial officers. The transaction processing software portfolio,
mostly delivered on-premise, runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail.   

The
depth and breadth of the software offerings, coupled with the company's global markets and technical support infrastructure, differentiate its capabilities from its competitors. The
company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio also contribute to its differentiation. The company's principal competitors in this segment include Alphabet
Inc. (Google), Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon), Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), Salesforce.com and SAP. The company also competes with
smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide.   

  8  

Global Business Services and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms:      

          The company's services segments, Global Business Services and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, operate in a highly competitive and
continually evolving global market. Competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry knowledge and
experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in these
businesses comes from its ability to deliver integrated solutions that address clients' needs, leveraging cloud, automation and AI, its global reach and scale, a global delivery model, best-of-breed
process and industry skills, extensive expertise in technology and innovation, services assets, and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The IBM Cloud
is built for the enterprise-designed for all data, AI-ready and secure to the core.   

Global Business Services:      

          GBS competes in consulting, systems integration, application management and business process outsourcing services. The company competes with
broad based competitors including: Accenture, Capgemini, DXC Technology (DXC), Fujitsu, Google and Microsoft; India-based service providers; the consulting practices of public accounting firms; and
many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.   

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms:      

          Technology Services   Cloud Platforms competes in strategic outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services.
The company competes with broad based competitors including: Amazon, DXC, Fujitsu, Google, Microsoft and Oracle; India-based service providers; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets
or niche service areas.   

          This
segment also includes the company's Integration Software offerings. Integration Software helps clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their
applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses. The company competes with Amazon,
BMC, Microsoft, Oracle, VMWare as well as companies that primarily focus on niche solutions and offerings.   

Systems:      

          The enterprise server and storage market is characterized by competition in technology and service innovation focused on value, function,
reliability, price and cost performance. The company's principal competitors include Dell Technologies, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise (HPE), Intel, Pure Storage, Oracle, and lower cost original device
manufacturer systems that are often re-branded. Also, alternative as-a-service providers are leveraging innovation in technology and service delivery both to compete with traditional providers and to
offer new routes to market for server and storage systems. These alternative providers include Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and IBM's own cloud-based services.   

          The
company gains advantage and differentiation through investments in higher value capabilities from semiconductor through software stack innovation that
increase efficiency, lower cost and improve performance. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's
leadership across areas as diverse as high performance computing, virtualization technologies, software optimization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and open
technologies like interconnect standards to be leveraged by broad ecosystems.   

  9  

Global Financing:      

          Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing's
access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures generates a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include interest rates charged, IT product experience,
client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in
providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of IT companies such as Cisco and HPE, non-captive financing entities and banks or
financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market.   

Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements     

          Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their
nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials
delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current
expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes,"
"expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of
the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on
pages 11 to 17 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other
factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference.   

          The
following information is included in IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:   

          Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services pages 142 to 146.   

          Financial
information by geographic areas page 146.   

Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R D activities page 124.   

          Financial
information regarding environmental activities page 115.   

          The
number of persons employed by the registrant page 75.   

          The
management discussion overview pages 27 to 30.   

          Available
information page 151.   

  Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.   

  10  

Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 27, 2018):     

Age    
     
   Officer since    

Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*  

60  

2005  

Michelle H. Browdy, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel  

53  

2015  

Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Integrated Accounts  

59  

2010  

Robert F. Del Bene, Vice President and Controller  

58  

2017  

Diane J. Gherson, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer  

60  

2013  

James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

51  

2008  

John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, IBM Cognitive Solutions and IBM Research  

64  

2000  

Kenneth M. Keverian, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy  

61  

2014  

Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Markets  

53  

2014  

*    Member
of the Board of Directors.     

All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors annually as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Kenneth M. Keverian, has been
an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.   

          Mr.
Keverian was a Senior Partner at the Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm, until joining IBM in 2014. He was with Boston Consulting Group for 26 years and he
focused on serving technology companies in the computing and communications sectors.   

Item 1A. Risk Factors:            

             Downturn in Economic Environment and Client Spending Budgets could impact the Company's
Business:    If overall demand for IBM's products and solutions decreases, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in client buying patterns, the company's revenue
and profit could be impacted.   

             The Company may not meet its Growth and Productivity Objectives under its Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration
Initiatives:    On an ongoing basis, IBM seeks to drive greater agility, productivity, flexibility and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business
processes, functions and technologies to remain competitive and to enable scaling of resources and offerings in both emerging and more established markets. These various initiatives may not yield
their intended gains in speed, quality, productivity and enablement of rapid scaling, which may impact the company's competitiveness and its ability to meet its growth and productivity objectives.   

             Failure of Innovation Initiatives could impact the Long-Term Success of the Company:    IBM has been moving away from certain segments of the
IT industry and into areas in which it can differentiate itself through innovation, by leveraging its investments in R D and attracting a successful developer ecosystem. If IBM is unable to continue
its cutting-edge innovation in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving environment or is unable to commercialize such innovations, expand and scale them with sufficient speed and versatility, the
company could fail in its ongoing efforts to maintain and increase its market share and its profit margins.   

             Damage to IBM's Reputation Could Impact the Company's Business:    IBM has one of the strongest brand names in the world, and its brand and
overall reputation could be negatively impacted by many factors, including if the company does not continue to be recognized for its industry-leading technology and solutions and as a cognitive
leader. IBM's reputation is potentially susceptible to damage by events such as significant disputes with clients, product defects, internal control deficiencies, delivery failures,
cybersecurity incidents, government investigations or legal proceedings or actions of current or former clients, directors, employees, competitors, vendors, alliance partners or joint venture
partners. If the   

  11  

company's
brand image is tarnished by negative perceptions, its ability to attract and retain customers could be impacted.   

             Risks from Investing in Growth Opportunities could impact the Company's Business:    The company continues to invest significantly in its
strategic imperatives to drive revenue growth and market share gains. Client adoption rates and viable economic models are less certain in the high-value, highly competitive, and rapidly-growing
segments, and new delivery models may unfavorably impact demand and profitability for our other products or services. In addition, as the company expands to capture emerging growth opportunities, it
needs to rapidly secure the appropriate mix of trained, skilled and experienced employees, and develop ecosystems and collaborative partnerships. In emerging growth countries, the developing nature
presents potential political, social, legal and economic risks from evolving governmental policy, inadequate infrastructure, creditworthiness of customers and business partners, labor disruption and
corruption, which could impact the company's ability to meet its growth objectives and to deliver to its clients around the world.   

IBM's Intellectual Property Portfolio may not prevent Competitive Offerings, and IBM may not be able to Obtain Necessary Licenses:    The
company's patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to the company's, nor can there be any
assurance that the resources invested by the company to protect its intellectual property will be sufficient or that the company's intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter
misappropriation or improper use of the company's technology. In addition, the company may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including
non-practicing entities. Also, there can be no assurances that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the future. The company's ability to protect its intellectual
property could also be impacted by changes to existing laws, legal principles and regulations governing intellectual property, including the ownership and protection of patents.   

             Cybersecurity and Privacy Considerations could impact the Company's Business:    In the current environment there are numerous and evolving
risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, hacktivists, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance, and human or technological error. Computer hackers
and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services and systems, and to fraudulently induce employees, customers, and other third parties to disclose information or
unwittingly provide access to systems or data. The risk of such attacks to the company includes attempted breaches not only of our own products, services and systems, but also those of customers,
contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties. The company's products, services and systems may be used in critical company, customer or third-party operations, or involve the
storage, processing and transmission of sensitive data, including valuable
intellectual property, other proprietary or confidential data, regulated data, and personal information of employees, customers and others. Successful breaches, employee malfeasance, or human or
technological error could result in, for example, unauthorized access to, disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of company, customer, or other third party data or systems; theft of
sensitive, regulated, or confidential data including personal information and intellectual property; the loss of access to critical data or systems through ransomware, destructive attacks or other
means; and business delays, service or system disruptions or denials of service. In the event of such actions, the company, its customers and other third parties could be exposed to potential
liability, litigation, and regulatory or other government action, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to brand and reputation, and other financial loss. In addition, the
cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. The company also experiences and responds to cybersecurity threats. To date,
there has not been a cybersecurity attack that has had a material adverse effect on the company, though there is no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect in the future. As the
company's business and the cybersecurity landscape evolve, the company may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. In the company's industry,
security vulnerabilities are increasingly discovered and   

  12  

publicized
across a broad range of hardware and software products, elevating the risk of attacks and the potential cost of response and remediation for the company and its customers. In addition, the
fast-paced, evolving, pervasive, and sophisticated nature of certain cyber threats and vulnerabilities, as well as the scale and complexity of the business and infrastructure, make it possible that
certain threats or vulnerabilities will be undetected or unmitigated in time to prevent an attack on the company and its customers. Cybersecurity risk to the company and its customers will also depend
on factors such as actions, practices and investments of customers, contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties. Cyber attacks or other catastrophic events resulting in disruptions
to or failures in power, information technology, communication systems or other critical infrastructure could result in interruptions or delays to company, customer, or other third party operations or
services, financial loss, injury to persons or property, potential liability, and damage to brand and reputation. Although the company takes significant steps to mitigate cybersecurity risk across a
range of functions, such measures can never eliminate the risk entirely or provide absolute security.   

As
a global enterprise, the regulatory environment with regard to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection issues is increasingly complex and may have impacts on the company's
business, including increased risk, costs, and expanded compliance obligations. As the company's business focus on data grows, the potential impact of these vulnerabilities and regulations on the
company's business, risks, and reputation may grow accordingly. The General Data Protection Regulation that will come into force in the European Union in May 2018 will continue to cause the company to
incur additional compliance costs.   

             The Company's Financial Results for Particular Periods are Difficult to Predict:    IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the
introduction of new products and services, our ability to compete effectively in increasingly competitive marketplaces, the length of the sales cycles and the seasonality of
technology purchases. Moreover, the company's strategic imperatives involve new products, new customers, new and evolving competitors, and new markets, all of which contribute to the difficulty of
predicting the company's financial results. The company's financial results may also be impacted by the structure of products and services contracts and the nature of its customers' businesses; for
example, certain of the company's services contracts with commercial customers in regulated industries are subject to periodic review by regulators with respect to controls and processes. As a result
of the above-mentioned factors, the company's financial results are difficult to predict. Historically, the company has had lower revenue in the first quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth
quarter. In addition, the high volume of products typically ordered at the end of each quarter, especially at the end of the fourth quarter, make financial results for a given period difficult to
predict.   

             Due to the Company's Global Presence, its Business and Operations could be impacted by Local Legal, Economic, Political and Health
Conditions:    The company is a globally integrated entity, operating in over 175 countries worldwide and deriving more than sixty percent of its revenues from sales outside the
United States. Changes in the laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates, or inadequate enforcement of laws or policies, could affect the company's business and the company's
overall results of operations. The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic and political changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including recessions,
inflation, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and non-U.S. currencies and adverse changes in trade relationships amongst those countries. Further, as the company expands its customer base
and the scope of its offerings, both within the U.S. and globally, it may be impacted by additional regulatory or other risks, including compliance with U.S. and foreign data privacy requirements,
labor relations laws, laws relating to anti-corruption, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. In addition, any widespread outbreak of an illness,
pandemic or other local or global health issue or uncertain political climates, international hostilities, natural disasters, or any terrorist activities, could adversely affect customer demand and
the company's operations and its ability to source and deliver products and services to its customers.   

  13  

The Company could incur Substantial Costs for Environmental Matters:    The company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the U.S. Superfund law. The company could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental
laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and competitive
position.   

             Tax Matters could impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition:    The company is subject to income taxes in both the
United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. IBM's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to,
income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower
statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations,
accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition in future periods. The Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD) is issuing guidelines that are different, in some respects, than long-standing international tax principles. As countries unilaterally amend their tax laws to adopt certain
parts of the OECD guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact the company's income taxes. Local country, state, provincial or municipal taxation may also be subject to
review and potential override by regional, federal, national or similar forms of government. In addition, IBM is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the United States
Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities around the world. The company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of
its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on the company's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.   

The Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition could be negatively impacted by its U.S. and non-U.S. Pension Plans:    Adverse
financial market conditions and volatility in the credit markets may have an unfavorable impact on the value of the company's pension trust assets and its future estimated pension liabilities. As a
result, the company's financial results in any period could be negatively impacted. In addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the company could be required to provide
incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which could negatively impact the company's financial flexibility. Further, the company's results could be negatively impacted by
premiums for mandatory pension insolvency insurance coverage outside the United States. Premium increases could be significant due to the level of insolvencies of unrelated companies in the country at
issue. IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information about potential impacts from pension funding and the use of certain assumptions regarding pension matters.   

             Ineffective Internal Controls could impact the Company's Business and Operating Results:    The company's internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective
internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal
controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the company's business and operating results could
be harmed and the company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations.   

             The Company's Use of Accounting Estimates involves Judgment and could impact the Company's Financial Results:    The application of generally
accepted accounting principles requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported   

  14  

financial
condition. The company's most critical accounting estimates are described in the Management Discussion in IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, under "Critical Accounting Estimates." In
addition, as discussed in note M, "Contingencies and Commitments," in IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, the company makes certain estimates including decisions related to legal
proceedings and reserves. These estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment. As a result, actual financial results may differ.   

The Company Depends on Skilled Employees and could be impacted by the loss of Critical Skills:    Much of the future success of the company
depends on the continued service, availability and integrity of skilled employees, including technical, marketing and staff resources. Skilled and experienced personnel in the areas where the company
competes are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of or insufficient knowledge and skills. In addition,
as global opportunities and industry demand shifts, realignment, training and scaling of skilled resources may not be sufficiently rapid or successful. Further, many of IBM's key employees receive a
total compensation package that includes equity awards. Any new regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the company's use, and the value, of the company's equity
awards, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation.   

             The Company's Business could be impacted by its Relationships with Critical Suppliers:    IBM's business employs a wide variety of
components, supplies, services and raw materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of the company's businesses rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, and
with the completion of GLOBALFOUNDRIES' acquisition of IBM's global commercial semiconductor business in 2015, it became IBM's exclusive server processor technology provider for certain
semiconductors. Changes in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of these suppliers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring products to market. Further, the
failure of the company's suppliers to deliver components, supplies, services and raw materials in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner, and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations
could adversely affect the company's business. In addition, any defective components, supplies or materials, or inadequate services received from suppliers could reduce the reliability of the
company's products and services and harm the company's reputation.   

             Product Quality Issues could impact the Company's Business and Operating Results:    The company has rigorous quality control standards and
processes intended to prevent, detect and correct errors, malfunctions and other defects in its products and services. If errors, malfunctions, defects or disruptions in service are experienced by
customers or in the company's operations there could be negative consequences that could impact customers' business operations and harm the company's business's operating results.   

             The Company could be impacted by its Business with Government Clients:    The company's customers include numerous governmental entities
within and outside the U.S., including the U.S. Federal
Government and state and local entities. Some of the company's agreements with these customers may be subject to periodic funding approval. Funding reductions or delays could adversely impact public
sector demand for our products and services. Also, some agreements may contain provisions allowing the customer to terminate without cause and providing for higher liability limits for certain losses.
In addition, the company could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor and could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, which could negatively impact the company's results of
operations and financial results.   

             The Company is exposed to Currency and Financing Risks that could impact its Revenue and Business:    The company derives a significant
percentage of its revenues and costs from its affiliates operating in local currency environments, and those results are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies and the U.S.
dollar. Further, inherent in the company's financing business are risks related to the concentration of credit, client creditworthiness, interest rate and currency fluctuations on   

  15  

the
associated debt and liabilities, the determination of residual values and the financing of other than traditional IT assets. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these risks,
including the use of derivative financial instruments, which involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to manage its
currency and financing risks will be successful.   

             The Company's Financial Performance could be impacted by Changes in Market Liquidity Conditions and by Customer Credit Risk on
Receivables:    The company's financial performance is exposed to a wide variety of industry sector dynamics worldwide. The company's earnings and cash flows, as well as its
access to funding, could be negatively impacted by changes in market liquidity conditions. IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information about the company's liquidity position. The
company's client base includes many worldwide enterprises, from small and medium businesses to the world's largest organizations and governments, with a significant portion of the company's revenue
coming from global clients across many sectors. Most of the company's sales are on an open credit basis, and the company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients' financial conditions. If
the company becomes aware of information related to the creditworthiness of a major customer, or, if future actual default rates on receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the
company may have to adjust its allowance for credit losses, which could affect the company's consolidated net income in the period the adjustments are made.   

             The Company's Reliance on Third Party Distribution Channels and Ecosystems could impact its Business:    The company offers its products
directly and through a variety of third party distributors, resellers and ecosystem partners. Changes in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of these distributors, resellers and ecosystem
partners could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring its products to market. As the company moves into new areas, distributors, resellers and ecosystem partners may be unable
to keep up with changes in technology and offerings, and the company may be
unable to recruit and enable appropriate partners to achieve growth objectives. In addition, the failure of third party distributors, resellers and ecosystem partners to comply with all applicable
laws and regulations may prevent the company from working with them and could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring products to market.   

Risks to the Company from Acquisitions, Alliances and Dispositions include Integration Challenges, Failure to Achieve Objectives, and the Assumption of
Liabilities:    The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions, alliances and dispositions. Acquisitions and alliances present significant challenges and risks
relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage acquisitions and alliances successfully or that strategic acquisition
opportunities will be available to the company on acceptable terms or at all. The related risks include the company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and
cost savings, as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired
business. From time to time, the company disposes or attempts to dispose of assets that are no longer central to its strategic objectives. Any such disposition or attempted disposition is subject to
risks, including risks related to the terms and timing of such disposition, risks related to obtaining necessary governmental or regulatory approvals and risks related to retained liabilities not
subject to the company's control.   

             The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Risks:    As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175
countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary
course of its business. The risks associated with such legal proceedings are described in more detail in note M, "Contingencies and Commitments," in IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders.
The company believes it has adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs. Legal and compliance risks, however, will continue to exist and additional legal   

  16  

proceedings
and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, may arise from time to time.   

             Risk Factors Related to IBM Securities:    The company and its subsidiaries issue debt securities in the worldwide capital markets from time
to time, with a variety of different maturities and in different currencies. The value of the company's debt securities fluctuates based on many factors, including the methods employed for calculating
principal and interest, the maturity of the securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities outstanding, the redemption features for the securities, the level, direction and volatility of
interest rates, changes in exchange rates, exchange controls, governmental and stock exchange regulations and other factors over which the company has little or no control. The company's ability to
pay interest and repay the principal for its debt securities is dependent upon its ability to manage its business operations, as well as the other risks described under this Item 1A.
entitled "Risk Factors." There can be no assurance that the company will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.   

          The
company also issues its common stock from time to time in connection with various compensation plans, contributions to its pension plan and certain acquisitions. The market price of
IBM common stock is subject to significant volatility, due to other factors described under this Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors," as well as economic and geopolitical conditions generally,
trading volumes, speculation by the press or investment community about the company's financial condition, and other factors, many of which are beyond the company's control. Since the market price of
IBM's common stock fluctuates significantly, stockholders may not be able to sell the company's stock at attractive prices.   

          In
addition, changes by any rating agency to the company's outlook or credit ratings can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both the company's debt and equity securities. The
company does not make a market in either its debt or equity securities and cannot provide any assurances with respect to the liquidity or value of such securities.   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments:            

          Not applicable.   

Item 2. Properties:            

The company's corporate headquarters are located at an owned site in Armonk, New York. As of December 31, 2017, in aggregate, the company
owns or leases facilities for current use consisting of approximately 78 million square feet worldwide.   

          At
December 31, 2017, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the United States had aggregate floor space of 9 million square feet, of which 7 million was
owned and 2 million was leased. Similar facilities in 15 other countries totaled 6 million square feet, of which 3 million was owned and 3 million was leased. The company's
facilities are utilized for current operations of all its segments.   

          Although
improved production techniques, productivity gains, divestitures and infrastructure reduction actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space, continuous maintenance
and upgrading of facilities is essential to maintain technological leadership, improve productivity and meet customer demand.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings:            

          Refer to note M, "Contingencies and Commitments," on pages 119 to 121 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is
incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures:            

Not applicable.   

  17  

PART II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of  Equity Securities:   

          Refer
to pages 148 and 151 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this item.   

          IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. There were 408,697 common stockholders of record at February 9, 2018.   

The
following table provides information relating to the company's repurchase of common stock for the fourth quarter of 2017.   

(1)    On
October 25, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized $3.0 billion in funds for use in the company's common stock repurchase program. On October 31,
2017, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $3.0 billion in funds for use in such program. In each case, the company stated that it would repurchase shares on the open market or in
private transactions depending on market conditions. The common stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. This table does not include shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in
connection with cashless exercises of employee stock options or shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee equity awards.     

Item 6. Selected Financial Data:            

Refer to pages 147 and 148 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:            

          Refer to pages 26 through 75 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk:            

          Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on page 74 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by
reference.   

  18  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:            

          Refer to pages 78 through 146 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the
Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form 10-K.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial  Disclosure:   

          Not
applicable.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures:            

          The company's management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the
company's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that
the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   

          Refer
to "Report of Management" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on pages 76 and 77 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference. There has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information:            

          Not applicable.   

  19  

PART III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Election of Directors for a Term of One Year," "General
Information Committees of the Board," "General Information Audit Committee" and "2017 Director Compensation Narrative Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held April 24, 2018, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant (at February 27, 2018)" on page 11 for additional information on the company's executive officers.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "2017 Director Compensation Narrative," "2017 Director Compensation
Narrative 2017 Director Compensation Table," "2017 Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "2017 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," "2017 Summary Compensation Table," "2017 Grants of
Plan-Based Awards Table," "2017 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Narrative," "2017 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table," "2017 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table,"
"2017 Retention Plan Narrative," "2017 Retention Plan Table," "2017 Pension Benefits Narrative," "2017 Pension Benefits Table," "2017 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Narrative," "2017 Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Table," "2017 Potential Payments Upon Termination Narrative," "2017 Potential Payments Upon Termination Table," "General Information Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation" and "Executive Compensation 2017 Report of the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors" in IBM's definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2018, all of which
information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder  Matters:            

          Refer to the information under the caption "Ownership of Securities Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners"
and "Ownership of Securities Common Stock and Stock-based Holdings of Directors and Executive Officers" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2018, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  20  

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION     

N/A
is not applicable   

  RSUs =
Restricted Stock Units, including Retention Restricted Stock Units   

  PSUs =
Performance Share Units   

  DCEAP
Shares = Promised Fee Shares under the DCEAP (see plan description below)   

(1)    In
connection with 35 acquisition transactions, 284,617 additional share based awards, consisting of stock options, were outstanding at December 31, 2017 as a
result of the Company's assumption of awards granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these awards was $41.73. The Company has not made, and will not make, any further
grants or awards of equity securities under the plans of these acquired companies.
      (2)    The
numbers included for PSUs in column (a) above reflect the maximum number payout. Assuming target number payout, the number of securities to be issued upon
exercise of PSUs for equity compensation plans approved by security holders is 2,540,890 and for equity compensation plans not approved by security holders is 108,423. For additional information about
PSUs, including payout calculations, refer to the information under "2017 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2018.     

The
material features of each equity compensation plan under which equity securities are authorized for issuance that was adopted without stockholder approval are described below:   

2001 Long-Term Performance Plan     

          The 2001 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "2001 Plan") has been used to fund awards for employees other than senior executives of
the Company. Awards for senior executives of the Company have been and will continue to be funded from the stockholder-approved 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "1999 Plan"); the 1999 Plan is also
used to fund awards for employees other than senior executives, Otherwise, the provisions of the 2001 Plan are identical to the 1999 Plan, including the type of awards that may be granted under the
plan (stock options, restricted stock and unit awards and long-term performance incentive awards).   

  21  

The
2001 Plan is administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee"), and that Committee may delegate to officers of
the company certain of its duties, powers and authority. Payment of awards may be made in the form of cash, stock or combinations thereof and may be deferred with Committee approval. Awards are not
transferable or assignable except (i) by law, will or the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) as a result of the disability of the recipient, or (iii) with the approval of the
Committee.   

          If
the employment of a participant terminates, other than as a result of the death or disability of a participant, all unexercised, deferred and unpaid awards shall be canceled
immediately, unless the award agreement provides otherwise. In the event of the death of a participant or in the event a participant is deemed by the company to be disabled and eligible for benefits
under the terms of the IBM Long-Term Disability Plan (or any successor plan or similar plan of another employer), the participant's estate, beneficiaries or representative, as the case may be, shall
have the rights and duties of the participant under the applicable award agreement. In addition, unless the award agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or
otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid, or
deferred award at any time if the participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the awards agreement and the 2001 Plan. In addition, awards may be cancelled if the participant
engages in any conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of the company.   

PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan     

          The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan (the "PWCC Plan") was adopted by the Board of Directors in connection with
the company's acquisition of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting ("PwCC") from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as announced on October 1, 2002. The PWCC Plan has been and will continue to be
used solely to fund awards for employees of PwCC who have become employed by the company as a result of the acquisition. Awards for senior executives of the company will not be funded from the PWCC
Plan. The terms and conditions of the PWCC Plan are substantively identical to the terms and conditions of the 2001 Plan, described above.   

IBM Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan     

          The IBM Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (the "DCEAP") was adopted in 1993 and amended and restated effective
January 1, 2014. Under the Amended and Restated DCEAP, non-management directors receive Promised Fee Shares in connection with deferred annual retainer payments. Each Promised Fee Share is
equal in value to one share of the company's common stock. Upon a director's retirement or other completion of service as a director, amounts deferred into Promised Fee Shares are payable in either
cash and/or shares of the company's stock either as lump sum or installments pursuant to the director's distribution election. For additional information about the DCEAP, see "2017 Director
Compensation Narrative" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held April 24, 2018.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information IBM Board of Directors" and "General
Information Certain
Transactions and Relationships" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 24, 2018, which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Audit and Non-Audit
Fees" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
April 24, 2018, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  22  

PART IV            

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules:            

(a)    The
following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.    Financial
statements from IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference:    

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 77).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (page 78).   

Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (page 79).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2017 and 2016 (page 80).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (page 81).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (pages 82 and 83).   

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 84 through 146).    

2.    Financial
statement schedule required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form:    

Page

Schedule 
Number    

XX  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule.  

S-1  

II  
     
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  

All
other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present, the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes
thereto.    

3.    Exhibits:    

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

(2)  
     
  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession.   
     
  Not applicable  

(3)  
      
   Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.   

The Certificate of Incorporation of IBM is Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K filed April 27, 2007, and is hereby incorporated
by reference.   

The By-laws of IBM, as amended through December 12, 2017, is Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K filed December 15,
2017, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

(4)  
      
   Instruments defining the rights of security holders.   

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 8.375% Debentures due 2019 are Exhibits 4(a)(b)(c) and (d), respectively, to Registration Statement No. 33-31732 on Form S-3, filed on October 24, 1989, and
are hereby incorporated by reference.   
      
   P  

23  

24  

25  

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

The IBM 2001 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-87708 on Form
S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement
No. 333-102872 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

The IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-30424 on
Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

The IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-31305 on
Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Forms of LTPP equity award agreements for (i) stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-settled
restricted stock units, SARS and (ii) retention restricted stock unit awards. Such equity award agreement forms and the related terms and conditions document, effective June 9, 2014, were filed under Exhibit 10.1 as Exhibit 10.2 to
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014, are hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of LTPP equity award agreement for performance share units was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2015, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Terms and Conditions of LTPP equity award agreements was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2016, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under the caption "General Information 2017 Director Compensation" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 24, 2018, are hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, contained in Registration Statement 33-60227 on Form S-8, is hereby
incorporated by reference.*   

The IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2014, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

26  

27  

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

Amendment No. 8 to the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, dated as of December 31, 2017*   
     
  10.2  

The IBM 2003 Employees Stock Purchase Plan, contained in Registration Statement 333-104806 on Form S-8, as amended through
April 1, 2005, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009,
is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012,
is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2015, is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016,
is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016,
is hereby incorporated by reference.*   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement*   
      
   10.3  

Letter dated December 4, 2008, signed by Erich Clementi and IBM, effective January 1, 2009, filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The $10,000,000 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 10, 2011, among International Business Machines
Corporation, the Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the Syndication and Documentation Agents named therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K
dated November 14, 2011, the term of which was extended through November 10, 2020, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

First Amendment, dated as of October 16, 2014, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement, among International Business Machines
Corporation, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto and the Syndication Agents and Documentation Agents therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2014, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

28  

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

Second Amendment, dated as of October 21, 2016, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement, among International Business Machines
Corporation, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto and the Syndication Agents and Documentation Agents therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2016, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

Agent Letter dated October 21, 2016 from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent to the Five-Year Credit
Agreement (as amended), confirming the extension of the Termination Date of the Five-Year Credit Agreement to November 10, 2021, with Schedule 1 reflecting Revolving Credit Commitments of $10,250,000,000, which was filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The $2,500,000,000 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of July 20, 2017, among International Business Machines
Corporation and IBM Credit LLC, as Borrowers, The Several Lenders from Time to Time Parties to such Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, BNP Paribas, Citibank N.A., Royal Bank of Canada and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., as
Syndication Agents, and the Documentation Agents named therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The $2,500,000,000 Three-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of July 20, 2017, among International Business Machines
Corporation and IBM Credit LLC, as Borrowers, The Several Lenders from Time to Time Parties to such Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, BNP Paribas, Citibank N.A., Royal Bank of Canada and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., as
Syndication Agents, and the Documentation Agents named therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

Third Amendment, dated as of July 20, 2017, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 10, 2011 (as
amended from time to time), among International Business Machines Corporation, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto, and the Syndication Agents and the Documentation
Agents named therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

(11)  
      
   Statement re computation of per share earnings  

The statement re computation of per share earnings is note [P], "Earnings Per Share of Common Stock," on page 124 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, and is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

(12)  
      
    Statement re computation of ratios   
      
   12  

(13)  
      
    Annual report to security holders**   
      
   13  

29  

*    Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      **    The
Performance Graphs, set forth on page 149 of IBM's 2017 Annual Report to Stockholders, are deemed to be furnished but not filed.    

Item 16.    Form 10-K Summary:            

          None.   

  30  

SIGNATURES            

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION    (Registrant)  

By:  
      
   /s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty     Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 27, 2018   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty  
     
          Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive 
Officer  
     
  February 27, 2018  

/s/ JAMES J. KAVANAUGH 

James J. Kavanaugh  

Senior Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer  

February 27, 2018  

/s/ ROBERT F. DEL BENE 

Robert F. Del Bene  

Vice President and Controller 
(Chief Accounting Officer)  

February 27, 2018  

Kenneth I. Chenault  
      
   Director  
      
   By:  
      
   /s/ CHRISTINA M. MONTGOMERY 

Christina M. Montgomery  

Michael L. Eskew  
     
  Director  

Attorney-in-fact    
February 27, 2018  

David N. Farr  
     
  Director  

Mark Fields  
      
   Director  

Alex Gorsky  
      
   Director  

Shirley Ann Jackson  
      
   Director  

Andrew N. Liveris  
      
   Director  

W. James McNerney, Jr.  
      
   Director  

Hutham S. Olayan  
      
   Director  

James W. Owens  
      
   Director  

Joseph R. Swedish  
      
   Director  

Sidney Taurel  
      
   Director  

Peter R. Voser  
      
   Director  

Frederick H. Waddell  
      
   Director  

31  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE            

  To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
International Business Machines Corporation:   

          Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report dated February 27, 2018 appearing in the 2017 Annual Report to Shareholders of International Business
Machines Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement
Schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.   

  /s/
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
New York, New York 
February 27, 2018   

  32  

SCHEDULE II            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES   For the Years Ended December 31:   (Dollars in Millions)

*    Additions
for Allowance for Credit Losses and Allowance for Inventory Losses are charged to expense and cost accounts, respectively, while Revenue Based Provisions are
charged to revenue accounts. Deductions represent the reversal of such charges.
      **    Primarily
comprises currency translation adjustments.    

S-1  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   

Item 1A. Risk Factors   
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
  Item 2. Properties   
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures   

PART II   
 
  Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
  Item 9B. Other Information   
 
  PART III   
 
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
 
  PART IV   
 
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   
  Item 16. Form 10-K Summary   

SIGNATURES   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE   

SCHEDULE II   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES For the Years Ended December 31: (Dollars in Millions)   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 a2233835zex-10_1.htm
 EX-10.1

Exhibit 10.1   
       
   IBM Board of Directors   
     
    Amended and Restated    
    Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan    
     
   Amendment No. 1   
     
   Instrument of Amendment   
     
  International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) has established and maintains the Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (the  Plan ).  
     
  In accordance with Article X of the Plan, the Board has reserved the right to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time.  
     
  The Board amended and restated the Plan effective as of January 1, 2014.  
     
  The Board has determined to amend the Plan, as heretofore restated and amended, in the manner set forth in this Instrument of Amendment, effective upon adoption, except as otherwise set forth herein.  
     
   Amendment:   
     
  1.                  Article II(f) is amended to read in its entirety as follows:  
     
   (f)                                 F  orm of Payment of Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014  
     
  Except as provided in accordance with a valid election change on or after January 30, 2018 under subsections (f)(i) and (f)(ii) below, any Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014 shall be distributed as a lump sum payment as of the first business day that is at least 30 business days after the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board. Effective January 30, 2018, an Outside Director may, in accordance with the procedures described in subsection (f)(i) below, change this lump sum payment default for Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014 to one of the payment options described in subsection (f)(ii) below.  
     
  However, payment may be made on any other day to the extent that such payment is treated as being paid on the date specified above under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which permits payment to be made within 30 days before the specified date and later within the same calendar year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months following the specified date, provided that the Outside Director is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.  

(i)                                         Changing the Lump Sum Payment Default for Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014  
     
  Effective January 30, 2018, an Outside Director may change the time and/or form of his or her lump sum payment default for Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014 by submitting to the Secretary a completed Payment Election Change Form, provided that:  
     
  (A)                      the Outside Director must make such election at least 12 months prior to the date on which he or she ceases to be a member of the Board; 
     
  (B)                      the payment date for any lump sum or the start date for any series of installments provided for under the new Payment Election Change Form shall be no earlier than the fifth anniversary of the payment date or start date that would have applied absent a Payment Election Change; and 
     
  (C)                      the Outside Director may make only one Payment Election Change. 
     
  (ii)                                      Forms of Payment pursuant to a Payment Election Change for Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014  
     
  By submitting a completed Payment Election Change Form to the Secretary pursuant to subsection (f)(i) above, each Outside Director may elect to change the lump sum payment default to one of the following payment options, for his or her deferred Fees earned prior to January 1, 2014:  
     
  (A)                      a lump sum payment as of the last business day in January of the calendar year immediately following the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board; or 
     
  (B)                      between two and ten annual installments, each paid as of the last business day in January beginning with the January immediately following the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board, until the elected number of installments has been paid.  This installment option is treated as the entitlement to a single payment for purposes of Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii). 
     
  To satisfy the five-year delay required pursuant to subsection (f)(i)(B) above and as set forth in ARTICLE VI(c)(i) below, any such new payment  

will be made (or begin to be made in the case of installments) as of the last business day in January following the calendar year in which occurs the fifth anniversary of the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board.   
     
  2.                  Article II(g)(iv) is amended and clarified as follows:  
     
  replacing the clause  shall be the fifth anniversary of  in subparagraph (B) thereof with  shall be no earlier than the fifth anniversary of.   
     
  3.                  Article IV(a)(i) is amended to read in its entirety as follows:  
     
   (i)                                  The Pre-2014 Cash Account, if applicable, is credited with the amount of Fees earned prior to December 31, 2013 that were accrued and deferred as cash (such credit made when such Fees become payable), plus (A) from the date of crediting to December 31, 2013, interest at an annual rate equal to the average of the first 26-week Treasury Bill issued in January and July of each year, and (B) on and after January 1, 2014, an amount equal to interest at an annual rate earned from an investment vehicle selected by the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee (the  Committee ).  
     
  4.                  Article IV(a) is amended by adding a new subsection (iii) to read in its entirety as follows:  
     
   (iii)                            Interest credited under subsections (i) or (ii) above will continue until: 
     
  (A)                                  the first day after the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board for immediate lump sum payments as described in ARTICLE II(f) or ARTICLE II(g)(i)(A); or 
     
  (B)                                  the last business day of the January immediately preceding the lump sum payment for lump sum amounts or each installment payment for installment payments, as applicable, payable as of the last business day of January.  
     
  5.                  Article VI   is amended by replacing existing subsection (c) thereof with the following new subsections (c) and (d):  
     
   (c)                                Delivery in the Event of 5-Year Delay Resulting from a Payment Election Change  
     
  To the extent payment is delayed in accordance with ARTICLE II(f)(i)(B) or ARTICLE II(g)(iv)(B), delivery of amounts will be made (or begin to be made in the case of installments) as follows, in accordance with the Payment Election Change:  

(i)                                        For amounts that, absent the Payment Election Change delay would have been payable in an immediate lump sum under ARTICLE II(f) or II(g)(i)(A), delivery will be made as of the last business day in January of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which occurs the fifth anniversary of the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board. 
     
  (ii)                                     Otherwise, delivery will be made as of the last business day of January that is the fifth anniversary of the date delivery would otherwise have occurred absent the Payment Election Change delay. 
     
  In accordance with subsections (a) and (b) above, an Outside Director electing cash payment(s) in lieu of Shares must provide written notice to the Secretary no later than the date on which the Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board. Such cash payment election will be a one-time election. Any such payment of Shares in cash shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the last business day of the January immediately preceding such payment.  
     
  (d)                                     Delivery in the Event of an Outside Director s Death  
     
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of an Outside Director s death, delivery of unpaid amounts from the Pre-2014 Cash Account and the Post-2013 Cash Account and Shares (including fractional shares) from the Pre-2014 Promised Fee Shares Account and the Post-2013 Promised Fee Shares Account will be made to the Outside Director s estate or beneficiaries, as appropriate, in a lump sum no later than 90 days after the date of death.   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 a2233835zex-10_2.htm
 EX-10.2

Exhibit 10.2   
       
   IBM EXCESS 401(k) PLUS PLAN   
   (As Amended and Restated effective as of January 1, 2010)   
     
   AMENDMENT No. 8   
     
   Instrument of Amendment   
     
   Recitals:   
     
  International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) has established and maintains the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (the  Plan ), an unfunded deferred compensation plan described in Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA).  
     
  In accordance with Section 10.01 of the Plan, IBM has reserved the right to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time.  
     
  IBM amended and restated the Plan effective as of January 1, 2010 and has subsequently amended the Plan.  
     
  IBM has determined to amend the Plan, as heretofore restated, in the manner set forth in this Instrument of Amendment, to be effective July 1, 2017, except as set forth herein.  
     
   Amendment:   
     
  1.             In Article II ( Definitions ), the definition of  Retirement  is amended by modifying the last sentence thereof to read as follows:  
     
  Effective July 1, 2014, Retirement also does not include a termination of employment while participating in the Transition to Retirement program, unless the Participant satisfies (a), (b), (c) or (d) above at the time of termination; provided, however, that an individual will be deemed to satisfy this Retirement definition if the individual participates in the Transition to Retirement Program that is effective July 1, 2017 and terminates employment with the Company upon the individual s applicable completion date of either March 31, 2018 or June 30, 2018.  
     
  2.             Section 5.01 ( Automatic Contributions ) is amended by replacing the second paragraph thereof (immediately following subsection (b)) with the following:  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of calculating the Automatic Contributions (if any) payable to Employees participating in the Transition to Retirement program that commenced in 2014 or the Transition to Retirement program that commenced July 1, 2017, the Employee s Elective Deferrals and Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay shall be calculated based on the Employee s actual Performance Pay, and the Base Pay the Employee would have received if the Employee had received a full-time rate of Base Pay for all portions of the Plan Year in which the Employee received the Transition-to-  
     
 1   

Retirement-reduced rate of Base Pay. Also notwithstanding the foregoing, for Employees whose 2013 Base Pay is adjusted as part of a broad-based, one-week mandatory time off program, Automatic Contributions (if any) for 2013 shall be calculated based on the Base Pay the Employee would have received for that week if the mandatory time off program had not occurred. No other element of Excess 401(k) Eligible pay shall be adjusted in this manner.  
     
 2   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 a2233835zex-10_3.htm
 EX-10.3

Exhibit 10.3   
       
    NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENT    
     
  In recognition of your critical role as a senior executive with International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) and in recognition of your access to IBM Confidential Information and/or IBM customer goodwill by virtue of your position, and/or your membership on the Growth   Transformation Team, and/or your appointment as an IBM Fellow, and/or as consideration for your promotion or hiring as a senior executive, along with your eligibility for awards to be granted to you under an IBM Long-Term Performance Plan, and/or for other good and valuable consideration, you ( Employee  or  you ) agree to the terms and conditions herein of this Noncompetition Agreement (the  Agreement ).  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in Paragraph 2.  
     
   1.                 Covenants.   
     
  You acknowledge and agree that:  
     
  a)            the compensation that you will receive in connection with this Agreement, including any equity awards, cash and other compensation, your position as a senior executive, and/or your appointment to or continued membership on the Growth   Transformation Team or any successor team or group ( G TT ), if applicable, and/or your appointment as an IBM Fellow, if applicable, is consideration both for your work at IBM and for your compliance with the post-employment restrictive covenants included in this Agreement.  
     
  b)            (i) the business in which IBM and its affiliates (collectively, the  Company ) are engaged is intensely competitive and your employment by IBM and/or your membership on the G TT, if applicable, and/or your role as an IBM Fellow, if applicable, requires that you have access to, and knowledge of, IBM Confidential Information, including IBM Confidential Information that pertains not only to your business or unit, but also to the Company s global operations; (ii) you are given access to, and develop relationships with, customers of the Company at the time and expense of the Company; and (iii) by your training, experience and expertise, your services to the Company are, and will continue to be, extraordinary, special and unique.  
     
  c)             (i) the disclosure of IBM Confidential Information would place the Company at a serious competitive disadvantage and would do serious damage, financial and  

otherwise, to the business of the Company; and (ii) you will keep in strict confidence, and will not, directly or indirectly, at any time during or after your employment with IBM, disclose, furnish, disseminate, make available or use, except in the course of performing your duties of employment with IBM, any IBM Confidential Information or any other trade secrets or confidential business and technical information of the Company s customers or vendors, without limitation as to when or how you may have acquired such information.  
     
  d)            IBM Confidential Information, whether reduced to writing, maintained on any form of electronic media, or maintained in your mind or memory and whether compiled by the Company and/or you, is owned by the Company, and (i) IBM Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, information that derives independent economic value from not being generally known to or readily ascertainable through proper means by others who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, and is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain the secrecy of such information; (ii) IBM Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, information that constitutes a trade secret of the Company; and (iii) the retention and/or use of such IBM Confidential Information by you during or after your employment with IBM (except in the course of performing your duties and obligations to the Company) shall constitute a misappropriation of the Company s trade secrets.  
     
   e)             during your employment with IBM and for twelve (12) months following the termination of your employment either by you or by IBM: (i) you will not directly or indirectly, within the Restricted Area, Engage in or Associate with (a) any Business Enterprise or (b) any competitor of the Company, if performing the duties and responsibilities of such engagement or association could result in you (1) intentionally or unintentionally using, disclosing, or relying upon IBM Confidential Information to which you had access by virtue of your job duties or other responsibilities with IBM or (2) exploiting customer goodwill cultivated in the course of your employment with IBM; however, in the event that your employment with IBM is terminated by IBM as a direct result of a resource action or similar restructuring action and not for Cause, the post-employment restriction in this clause will not apply; and (ii) you will not directly or indirectly solicit, for competitive business purposes, any actual or prospective    customer of the Company with which you were directly or indirectly involved as part of your job responsibilities during the last twelve (12) months of your employment with IBM. 
     
 2   

f)             during your employment with IBM and for two (2) years following the termination of your employment either by you or by IBM for any reason, you will not directly or indirectly, within the Restricted Area, hire, solicit or make an offer to, or attempt to or participate or assist in any effort to hire, solicit, or make an offer to, any Employee of the Company to be employed or to perform services outside of the Company.  
     
   2.                 Definitions.   
     
  The following terms have the meanings provided below.  
     
  a)             Business Enterprise  means any entity that engages in, or owns or controls an interest in any entity that engages in, competition with any business unit or division of the Company in which you worked at any time during the three (3) year period prior to the termination of your employment.  
     
   b)             Cause  means, as reasonably determined by IBM, the occurrence of any of the following: (i) embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds or other material acts of dishonesty; (ii) commission or conviction of any felony or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or  nolo contendere  to any felony or misdemeanor (other than a minor traffic violation or other minor infraction); (iii) engagement in any activity that you know or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company; (iv) failure to adhere to the Company s corporate codes, policies or procedures; (v) a breach of any covenant in any employment agreement or any intellectual property agreement, or a breach of any other provision of your employment agreement, in either case if the breach is not cured to the Company s satisfaction within a reasonable period after you are provided with notice of the breach (no notice and cure period is required if the breach cannot be cured),  provided, however , that the mere failure to achieve performance objectives shall not constitute Cause; (vi) failure by you to perform your duties or follow management direction, which failure is not cured to the Company s satisfaction within a reasonable period of time after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you (no notice or cure period is required if the failure to perform cannot be cured); (vii) violation of any statutory, contractual or common law duty or obligation to the Company, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty; (viii) rendering of services for    any organization or engaging directly or indirectly in any business which is or becomes competitive with the Company, or which organization or business, or the rendering of services to 
     
 3   

such organization or business, is or becomes otherwise prejudicial to or in conflict with the interests of the Company; or (ix) acceptance of an offer to Engage in or Associate with any business which is or becomes competitive with the Company.  
     
  c)              Employee of the Company  means any employee of the Company who worked within the Restricted Area at any time in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding any actual or attempted hiring, solicitation or making of an offer.  
     
  d)             Engage in or Associate with  includes, without limitation, engagement or association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, director, partner, principal, joint venturer, associate, employee, member, consultant, or contractor.   The phrase also includes engagement or association as a shareholder or investor during the course of your employment with IBM, and includes beneficial ownership of five percent (5%) or more of any class of outstanding stock of a Business Enterprise or competitor of the Company following the termination of your employment with IBM. 
     
   e)              IBM Confidential Information  is any information of a confidential or secret nature that is disclosed to you, or created or learned by you that relates to the business of the Company, including trade secrets.  Examples of IBM Confidential Information include, but are not limited to:  the Company s formulae, patterns, compilations, programs, devices, methods, techniques, software, tools, systems, and processes, the Company s selling, manufacturing, and servicing methods and business techniques, implementation strategies, and information about any of the foregoing, the Company s training, service, and business manuals, promotional materials, training courses, and other training and instructional materials, vendor and product information, customer and prospective customer lists, other customer and prospective customer information, client data, global strategic plans, marketing plans, information about the Company s management techniques and management strategies, information regarding long-term business opportunities, information regarding the development status of specific Company products, assessments of the global competitive landscape of the industries in which the Company competes, plans for acquisition or disposition of products or companies or business    units, expansion plans, financial status and plans, compensation information, and personnel information. 
     
 4   

f)              Restricted Area  means any geographic area in the world in which you worked or for which you had job responsibilities, including supervisory responsibilities, during the last twelve (12) months of your employment with IBM.  You acknowledge that IBM is a global company and that the responsibilities of certain IBM employees, including, without limitation, G TT members, are global in scope.  
     
   3.                 Acknowledgements.   
     
  You acknowledge that a mere agreement not to disclose, use, or rely on IBM Confidential Information after your employment by IBM ends would be inadequate, standing alone, to protect IBM s legitimate business interests.  You acknowledge that disclosure of, use of, or reliance on IBM Confidential Information, whether or not intentional, is often difficult or impossible for the Company to detect until it is too late to obtain any effective remedy.  You acknowledge that the Company will suffer irreparable harm if you fail to comply with Paragraph 1 or otherwise improperly disclose, use, or rely on IBM Confidential Information.  You acknowledge that the restrictions set forth in Paragraph 1 are reasonable as to geography, scope and duration.  
     
   4.                 Injunctive Relief.   
     
  You agree that the Company would suffer irreparable harm if you were to breach, or threaten to breach, any provision of this Agreement and that the Company would by reason of such breach, or threatened breach, be entitled to injunctive relief in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, without the need to post any bond, and you further consent and stipulate to the entry of such injunctive relief in such a court prohibiting you from breaching, or further breaching, this Agreement.  This Paragraph shall not, however, diminish the right of the Company to claim and recover damages in addition to injunctive relief.  
     
   5.                 Severability.   
     
  In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.  Moreover, if any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall be held to be excessively broad as to duration, activity or subject, such provisions shall be construed by limiting and reducing them so as to be enforceable   
     
 5   

to the maximum extent allowed by applicable law.  Furthermore, a determination in any jurisdiction that this Agreement, in whole or in part, is invalid or unenforceable shall not in any way affect or impair the validity or enforceability of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction.  
     
   6.                 Headings.   
     
  The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience and reference only and shall in no way affect, define, limit, or describe the scope, intent or construction of any provision hereof.  
     
   7.                 Waiver.   
     
  The failure of IBM to enforce any terms, provisions or covenants of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of the same or of the right of IBM to enforce the same.  Waiver by IBM of any breach or default by you (or by any other employee or former employee of IBM) of any term or provision of this Agreement (or any similar agreement between IBM and you or any other employee or former employee of IBM) shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default.  
     
   8.                 Successors and Assigns.   
     
  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon IBM, any successor organization which shall succeed to IBM by acquisition, merger, consolidation or operation of law, or by acquisition of assets of IBM and any assigns.  You may not assign your obligations under this Agreement.  
     
   9.                 Disclosure of Existence of Covenants.   
     
  You agree that while employed by IBM and for two (2) years thereafter, you will communicate the contents of this Agreement to any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or other entity which you intend to be employed by, associated with or represent, prior to or at the time of accepting such employment, association or representation.  
     
   10.              Notice to IBM of Prospective Position.   
     
  You agree that if, at any time during your employment or within twelve (12) months following the termination of your employment with IBM, you are offered and intend to accept a position with any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or other entity other  
     
 6   

than the Company, you will provide the Senior Vice President of Human Resources for IBM Corporation with two (2) week written notice prior to accepting any such position.  This two (2) week written notice is separate from any other notice obligations you may have under agreements with IBM.  If for any reason you cannot, despite using your best efforts, provide the two (2) week written notice prior to accepting any such position, you agree that you will provide two (2) week written notice prior to commencing that new position.  You acknowledge and agree that a two (2) week written notice period is appropriate and necessary to permit IBM to determine whether, in its view, your proposed new position could lead to a violation of this Agreement, and you agree that you will provide IBM with such information as IBM may request to allow IBM to complete its assessment (except that you need not provide any information that would constitute confidential or trade secret information of any entity other than the Company).  During the notice period required by this Paragraph, IBM may choose, in its sole discretion, to limit your duties in your position with IBM and to restrict your access to IBM s premises, systems, products, information, and employees.  IBM is committed to protect its trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information, and will take all necessary and appropriate steps to do so.  Upon giving notice, you agree to cooperate with IBM in good faith to ensure that its trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information are not disclosed, either intentionally or inadvertently.  
     
   11.              No Oral Modification.   
     
  This Agreement may not be changed orally, but may be changed only in a writing signed by the Employee and a duly authorized representative of IBM.  
     
   12.              Entire Agreement.   
     
   Although this Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between the Employee and IBM concerning the restrictive covenants herein, this Agreement does not impair, diminish, restrict or waive any other restrictive covenant, nondisclosure obligation or confidentiality obligation of the Employee to the Company under any other agreement, policy,    plan or program of the Company.  Nothing herein affects your rights, immunities, or obligations under any federal, state or local law, including under the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016, as described in the Company s Business Conduct Guidelines, or prohibits you from reporting possible violations of law or regulation to a government agency, as protected by law.  The 
     
 7   

Employee and IBM represent that, in executing this Agreement, the Employee and IBM have not relied upon any representations or statements made, other than those set forth herein, with regard to the subject matter, basis or effect of this Agreement.  
     
   13.              Governing Law and Choice of Forum.   
     
  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflict of law rules.  The parties agree that any action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in the state and federal courts sitting in New York County or Westchester County, New York.  The parties agree to the personal jurisdiction thereof, and irrevocably waive any objection to the venue of such action, including any objection that the action has been brought in an inconvenient forum.  

[INSERT   EMPLOYEE NAME HERE]       
 
  INTERNATIONAL   BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION           

By:          

By:          

(Employee   Signature)       

Diane   J. Gherson            

Senior   Vice President, Human Resources           

Employee Serial No.       

Date       

8   

</EX-10.3>

<EX-12>
 5
 a2233835zex-12.htm
 EX-12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 12            

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS   TO FIXED CHARGES   (Unaudited)            

(1)    Income
from continuing operations before income taxes excludes (a) amortization of capitalized interest and (b) the company's share in the income and
losses of less-than-fifty percent owned affiliates.     

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 12   
 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES (Unaudited)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 6
 a2233835zex-13.htm
 EX-13

Exhibit 13   
     
   Report of Financials   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION        

Overview       

26           

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements       

27           

Management Discussion Snapshot       

27           

Description of Business       

30           

Year in Review       

35           

Prior Year in Review       

56           

Other Information       

66           

Looking Forward       

66           

Liquidity and   Capital Resources       

67           

Critical   Accounting Estimates       

70           

Currency Rate Fluctuations       

73           

Market Risk       

74           

Cybersecurity       

75           

Employees and   Related Workforce       

75           

Report of Management        

76           

Report of Independent Registered Public   Accounting Firm        

77           

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

Earnings       

78           

Comprehensive Income       

79           

Financial Position       

80           

Cash Flows       

81           

Changes in Equity       

82           

NOTES   TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

A        
 
   Significant Accounting Policies       

84           

B        
 
  Accounting   Changes       

94           

C        
 
  Acquisitions/Divestitures       

96           

D        
 
  Financial   Instruments       

100           

E        
 
  Inventories       

107           

F        
 
  Financing   Receivables       

107           

G        
 
  Property, Plant   and Equipment       

111           

H        
 
  Investments and   Sundry Assets       

111           

I        
 
  Intangible   Assets Including Goodwill       

111           

J        
 
  Borrowings       

112           

K        
 
  Other   Liabilities       

115           

L        
 
  Equity Activity       

116           

M        
 
  Contingencies and   Commitments       

119           

N        
 
  Taxes       

121           

O        
 
  Research,   Development and Engineering       

124           

P        
 
  Earnings Per   Share of Common Stock       

124           

Q        
 
  Rental Expense   and Lease Commitments       

125           

R        
 
  Stock-Based   Compensation       

125           

S        
 
  Retirement-Related   Benefits       

128           

T        
 
  Segment Information       

142           

U        
 
  Subsequent   Events       

146           

Five-Year   Comparison of Selected Financial Data        

147           

Selected   Quarterly Data        

148           

Performance   Graphs        

149           

Stockholder   Information        

150           

25   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   OVERVIEW   
     
  The financial section of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) 2017 Annual Report includes the Management Discussion, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This Overview is designed to provide the reader with some perspective regarding the information contained in the financial section.  
     
   Organization of Information   
     
                   The Management Discussion is designed to provide readers with an overview of the business and a narrative on the company s financial results and certain factors that may affect its future prospects from the perspective of the company s management. The  Management Discussion Snapshot,  beginning on page 27, presents an overview of the key performance drivers in 2017. 
     
                   Beginning with the  Year in Review  on page 35, the Management Discussion contains the results of operations for each reportable segment of the business and a discussion of the company s financial position and cash flows. Other key sections within the Management Discussion include:  Looking Forward  on page 66, and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  on page 67, which includes a description of management s definition and use of free cash flow. 
     
                   The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented on pages 78 through 83. These statements provide an overview of the company s income and cash flow performance and its financial position. 
     
                   The Notes follow the Consolidated Financial Statements. Among other items, the Notes contain the company s accounting policies (pages 84 to 93), acquisitions and divestitures (pages 96 to 99), detailed information on specific items within the financial statements, certain contingencies and commitments (pages 119 to 121) and retirement-related plans information (pages 128 to 142). 
     
                   The Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). 
     
                   On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( U.S. tax reform ) was enacted in the U.S. This Act resulted in the company recognizing a fourth quarter provisional one-time charge of $5.5 billion. Refer to note N,  Taxes,  on pages 121 to 124 for additional information. 
     
                   The references to  adjusted for currency  or  at constant currency  in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. See  Currency Rate Fluctuations  on page 73 for additional information. 
     
                   Within the financial statements and tables in this Annual Report, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages reported are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar numbers. 
     
   Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings   
     
  In an effort to provide better transparency into the operational results of the business, the company separates business results into operating and non-operating categories. Operating earnings from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of certain acquisition-related charges, intangible asset amortization expense resulting from basis differences on equity method investments, retirement-related costs, discontinued operations and related tax impacts. For the fourth-quarter and full-year 2017, operating (non-GAAP) earnings also exclude a one-time charge associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform due to its unique and non-recurring nature. For acquisitions, operating (non-GAAP) earnings exclude the amortization of purchased intangible assets and acquisition-related charges such as in-process research and development, transaction costs, applicable restructuring and related expenses and tax charges related to acquisition integration. These charges are excluded as they may be inconsistent in amount and timing from period to period and are dependent on the size, type and frequency of the company s acquisitions. All other spending for acquired companies is included in both earnings from continuing operations and in operating (non-GAAP) earnings.  
     
  Throughout the Management Discussion and Analysis, the impact of acquisitions over the prior 12-month period may be a driver of higher expense year to year. For retirement-related costs, the company characterizes certain items as operating and others as non-operating. The company includes defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan service cost, amortization of prior service cost and the cost of defined contribution plans in operating earnings. Non-operating retirement-related cost includes defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortized actuarial gains/losses, the impacts of any plan curtailments/settlements and multi-employer plan costs, pension insolvency costs and other costs. Non-operating retirement-related costs are primarily related to changes in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance, and the company considers these costs to be outside of the operational performance of the business. Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) guidance on presentation of net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefits costs, and as a result, the company will align its presentation for operating (non-GAAP) earnings to conform to the FASB presentation of these costs included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Operating (non-GAAP) earnings will no longer include amortization of prior service costs and will now include multi-employer plan costs. The full-year 2018 operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share expectation has been calculated under this new definition.  
     
  Overall, the company believes that providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described here provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of the company s pension plans;  
     
 26   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparison to peer companies; and allows the company to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward. The company s reportable segment financial results reflect operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company s management and measurement system.  
     
   FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS   
     
  Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statement in this Annual Report speaks only as of the date on which it is made; the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the company s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance; these statements, by their nature, address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to be materially different, as discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company s 2017 Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2018.  
     
   MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT   
     
  ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*          (1.3) percent adjusted for currency. 
  **Includes a one-time charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform, or $5.84 of diluted earnings per share in 2017.  
  +          At December 31 
  NM Not meaningful  
     
  The following table provides the company s (non-GAAP) operating earnings for 2017 and 2016.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          See page 49 for a more detailed reconciliation of net income to operating earnings. 
  **Includes a one-time charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform in 2017.  
  NM Not meaningful  
     
 27   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In 2017, the company reported $79.1 billion in revenue and $5.8 billion in income from continuing operations, which includes a one-time charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform. Operating (non-GAAP) earnings were $12.9 billion, which excludes the one-time charge. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $6.14 as reported and $13.80 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company generated $16.7 billion in cash from operations, $13.0 billion in free cash flow and delivered shareholder returns of $9.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.  
     
  Total consolidated revenue in 2017 decreased 1.0 percent as reported and 1.3 percent year to year adjusted for currency. The company returned to revenue growth in the fourth quarter with an increase of 3.6 percent as reported and 0.9 percent adjusted for currency. Year-to-year revenue performance improved sequentially in the second half of 2017 compared to first-half performance. Contributors to the second-half improvement included: momentum in cloud and as-a-Service offerings, strong Systems growth across IBM Z, Power and Storage, improved software transactional performance and improved growth in Consulting.  
     
  In 2017, the company continued to deliver solid revenue growth in its strategic imperatives which generated $36.5 billion of revenue and grew 11 percent as reported and adjusted for currency, with double-digit growth in cloud, security and mobile, as the company continues to build new products and offerings and continuously reinvent its platforms. These are not separate businesses, they are offerings across the segments that address opportunities in analytics, cloud, security and mobile. The company is embedding cloud and cognitive capabilities across the business and the strategic imperatives reflect the progress being made in helping enterprise clients extract value from data and become digital businesses. Strategic imperatives growth in 2017 largely represented organic growth as the acquisitive content leveled on a year-to-year basis. Total Cloud revenue of $17.0 billion increased 24 percent as reported and adjusted for currency, with as-a-Service revenue up 31 percent as reported and adjusted for currency. The annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.3 billion in 2017 compared to $8.6 billion in 2016. Analytics revenue of $20.6 billion increased 6 percent as reported and adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 19 percent as reported and adjusted for currency and Security revenue increased 55 percent (54 percent adjusted for currency), driven by security software solutions and strong demand for the pervasive encryption capabilities in the new z14 mainframe.  
     
  From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue increased 1.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency with growth in Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software as reported and adjusted for currency. Solutions Software performance included growth in annuity revenue, led by as-a-Service solutions. Global Business Services (GBS) revenue decreased 2.1 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency with declines across all lines of business. However, GBS strategic imperatives revenue increased 10 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year. The GBS business continued to shift resources and move into the high-value strategic areas of digital, cloud and analytics. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue decreased 3.0 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency, primarily driven by a decline in Infrastructure Services. Within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, strategic imperatives revenue was up 19 percent as reported and 18 percent adjusted for currency year to year, driven by hybrid cloud services, security and mobile. Systems revenue increased 6.2 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency driven by contribution from the z14 mainframe in the second half of 2017 and growth in Storage Systems.  
     
  From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue was essentially flat year to year as reported (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) with the U.S. decline of 1.4 percent, partially offset by growth in Latin America (5.1 percent as reported, 3 percent adjusted for currency) and Canada (4.9 percent as reported, 3 percent adjusted for currency). Europe/ Middle East/Africa (EMEA) revenue decreased 1.7 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) driven primarily by declines in the UK (11.2 percent as reported, 7 percent adjusted for currency) and Germany (3.2 percent as reported, 6 percent adjusted for currency). Asia Pacific revenue decreased 2.0 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) with a decline in China of 10.6 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency). Japan declined 1.1 percent as reported (increased 2 percent adjusted for currency) and India grew 8.6 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  The consolidated gross margin of 45.8 percent decreased 2.1 points year to year and reflects investments, mix and higher retirement-related costs, partially offset by benefits from productivity. The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 47.4 percent decreased 1.6 points versus the prior year primarily driven by the same factors, excluding the impact of higher non-operational retirement-related costs.  
     
 28   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Total expense and other (income) decreased 4.4 percent in 2017 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year decrease was primarily the result of continued focus on efficiency in spending and reduced expenses for workforce transformation. This included a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges (3 points), lower operational spending (2 points) and a prior-year charge for real estate actions (1 point). The year-to-year decrease in expense and other (income) was partially offset by spending related to acquisitions completed in the prior 12 months (1 point) and a decline in intellectual property (IP) income (1 point). Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 6.2 percent year to year, driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $11.4 billion decreased 7.5 percent and the pre-tax margin was 14.4 percent, a decrease of 1.0 points versus 2016. The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2017 was 49.5 percent, which includes a one-time charge of $5.5 billion from the enactment of U.S. tax reform in December 2017, compared to 3.6 percent in 2016. The charge encompasses several elements, including taxes on accumulated overseas profits and the revaluation of certain deferred tax assets and liabilities. The tax rate in 2016 was primarily the result of a refund ($1.0 billion) of previously paid Japan taxes plus interest in the first quarter of 2016. Income from continuing operations of $5.8 billion decreased 51.5 percent, impacted by the one-time charge, and the net income margin was 7.3 percent, a decrease of 7.6 points versus 2016. Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax, were $5 million in 2017 compared to $9 million in 2016. Net income of $5.8 billion decreased 51.5 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $13.9 billion decreased 0.5 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations was essentially flat at 17.5 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $12.9 billion decreased 0.7 percent with an operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.3 percent, flat year to year. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2017 was 6.7 percent, which includes the effect of discrete tax benefits in the first and second quarters of 2017.  
     
  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $6.14 in 2017, which includes the one-time charge associated with U.S. tax reform, decreased 50.4 percent year to year. In 2017, the company repurchased 27.2 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $4.3 billion and had $3.8 billion remaining in the current share repurchase authorization at December 31, 2017. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $13.80 increased 1.5 percent versus 2016.  
     
  At December 31, 2017, the balance sheet remains strong, and with the newly reorganized financing entity, IBM Credit LLC, the company is better positioned to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2017 were $12.6 billion, an increase of $4.1 billion from December 31, 2016. Key drivers in the balance sheet and total cash flows were:  
     
  Total assets increased $7.9 billion ($3.0 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2016 driven by:  
     
                   Increases in cash and marketable securities ($4.1 billion), total receivables ($2.9 billion), retirement plan assets ($1.6 billion) and goodwill ($0.6 billion); partially offset by 
     
                   Decreases in intangible assets ($0.9 billion). 
     
  Total liabilities increased $8.6 billion ($4.0 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2016 driven by:  
     
                   Increases in total debt ($4.7 billion) and taxes ($3.5 billion). 
     
  Total equity of $17.7 billion decreased $0.7 billion from December 31, 2016 as a result of:  
     
                   Decreases from dividends ($5.5 billion) and share repurchases ($4.3 billion); partially offset by 
     
                   Increases from net income ($5.8 billion), retirement-related benefit plans ($2.3 billion) and equity translation adjustments ($0.8 billion). 
     
  The company generated $16.7 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, a decrease of $0.4 billion compared to 2016, driven primarily by performance-related declines within net income and an increase in cash tax payments, partially offset by an increase in cash provided by receivables. Net cash used in investing activities of $7.1 billion was $3.9 billion lower than the prior year, primarily driven by a decrease in cash used for acquisitions ($5.2 billion). Net cash used in financing activities of $6.4 billion increased $0.5 billion compared to 2016, driven primarily by increased gross common share repurchases ($0.8 billion).  
     
 29   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In January 2018, the company disclosed that it is expecting GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $11.70 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.80 per diluted share for 2018. The company expects free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow realization is expected to be in excess of 100 percent of GAAP net income. Refer to page 68 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure. Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 66 and 67 for additional information on the company s expectations.  
     
   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   
     
  Please refer to IBM s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 27, 2018 for Item 1A. entitled  Risk Factors.   
     
  The company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software which are all bolstered by one of the world s leading research organizations.  
     
   Strategy   
     
  The IBM strategy starts with its clients.  
     
  As a uniquely integrated technology and services company, IBM helps clients change the way the world works by building smarter businesses.  
     
  IBM s clients include many of the world s most successful enterprises. These clients are at an inflection point, facing tremendous new opportunity and incredible competition. Digital technologies are unlocking unparalleled insight from previously inaccessible data. Work processes are being reimagined for speed and vastly smarter decision-making.  
     
  To win in these disruptive times requires that businesses learn   learn by extracting insights from their data and by applying those insights to how work is done. Smarter businesses do this faster and more effectively supported by IBM s combination of  Innovative Technology ,  Industry Expertise  and  Trust and Security .  
     
  The company s capabilities include:  
     
   Cloud   
     
  Cloud is enabling the emergence of platforms through standardization, agility and innovation in both IT and business processes. Enterprise cloud is very different from consumer cloud: enterprises must bridge together mission-critical assets from on-premise systems with private cloud and public cloud. Hybrid cloud technology provides that bridge. All three must coexist and interoperate as a single platform.  
     
  The IBM Cloud is uniquely:  
     
              Built for all applications: Applications require data. That data is in on-premise systems, in private clouds and in the public cloud. The IBM Cloud enables one data platform that, regardless of data s location, can run all applications. IBM s hybrid cloud capabilities make this single platform operate seamlessly. 
     
              Artificial intelligence (AI)-ready: The IBM Cloud is built from the ground up to handle the demanding data and computational requirements of AI. 
     
              Secure to the Core: IBM has a long history of helping clients keep data and transactions secure. Security is even more important in an increasingly connected world, and IBM has extended this unparalleled level of security to the cloud. For example, IBM s cybersecurity offerings act as a business immune system, with AI technology at its core, delivered from the IBM Cloud. These systems help to defend and respond to cyber-attacks across an organization s data, applications, mobile and endpoint devices. 
     
  The IBM Cloud is delivered with leading edge technology, including:  
     
              Modern infrastructure: IBM s systems, including servers, storage and operating system software, have been refreshed and redesigned for cloud and enterprise AI workloads. IBM s new z14 is the world s first system to offer pervasive encryption of data without requiring changes to applications, and with no performance degradation. With IBM s systems, clients can build an IT infrastructure that is optimized for the scalability, reliability and growth that businesses need in today s data-driven world. 
     
              Future infrastructure: The Q Network on the IBM Cloud enables clients around the world to explore quantum computing capabilities. IBM is the leader in quantum computing. Clients are signing on to explore how to overcome foreseen constraints in traditional computing models. 
     
   AI and Data   
     
   Artificial intelligence can help clients extract insight and make intelligent decisions from data. Like cloud, enterprise AI is very different from consumer AI. Enterprise applications deal with more complex use cases that benefit from    expert knowledge, such as in healthcare or in the identification of business risk. Enterprise AI applications are trained by expert data, through data sets of all sizes and with more specialization than those in the general-knowledge consumer world. IBM AI   through the Watson platform: 
     
              Learns more from less data: The ability to extract deep insights from both large and small data sets is essential for enterprise applications. Watson excels at this and can produce more insights with less data than other AI systems. That means clients can get started more quickly and begin to gain experience deploying AI in the enterprise. 
     
 30   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
              Protects clients  insights: While Watson builds on cumulative experience and knowledge, IBM recognizes that data and insights are clients  most important assets and a true competitive advantage. Watson is built to safeguard this type of information. 
     
              Reimagines your workflows: Watson has been built for   and trained in   areas requiring deep expertise. Watson brings AI to professionals so that work can be done more efficiently, and even more importantly, can improve as the systems learn from the data. 
     
   Solutions   
     
  Creating smarter businesses requires reimagining a company s core processes   for example, in healthcare, managing risk or optimizing a supply chain. In addition to building solutions based on IBM s experience, IBM is also creating a series of AI solutions   cognitive solutions   that embed artificial intelligence and data to change how work is done. Examples include:  
     
              Global Industry Platforms: provides cognitive, analytics, security and cloud technology in comprehensive industry-specific platforms to remove much of the cost and complexity of delivering core business functions. For example:  Banking, wealth management, and insurance are some of the areas poised for dramatic change by using cognitive and AI solutions from IBM Watson Financial Services.  Watson Health provides technology and expertise to empower leaders, advocates and influencers in health to accelerate discovery, make essential connections and gain confidence on their path to solving the world s biggest health challenges. 
     
              Blockchain Solutions: IBM is working with clients and developers across multiple industries to use blockchain to transform how business is done in areas such as banking and financial services and supply chain. For example, blockchain technology can be used to digitize global trade processes, providing a more efficient and secure method of moving goods across borders and trading zones. 
     
              Watson IoT: includes both a cloud-based platform and industry solutions infused with AI, helping organizations mine intelligence from billions of connected devices. 
     
   Enterprise Services   
     
  Through Global Business Services and Global Technology Services, IBM has helped the world s most successful enterprises transition from era to era. Using proven methods, IBM Services bring globally delivered outcomes using proven methods by focusing on:  
     
              Digital Reinvention for growth: a unique framework for business transformation focused on growth opportunities. 
     
              End-to-end Services integration: Global Technology Services brings the ability to connect previously disconnected parts of an organization. By embedding Watson into these mission critical services, new levels of quality, resiliency and automation are achieved. 
     
              Pragmatic journey to Cloud and AI: Global Business Services brings its deep experience when guiding clients through the journey to cloud and AI. Clients gain from the thorough understanding of technology and the best ways to utilize it. 
     
  As clients reinvent their businesses to be smarter, they need all of this to work together. This is what they expect from IBM, what they need from IBM and what sets IBM apart.  
     
  ****  
     
  Responsible stewardship is an enduring principle that underscores all IBM endeavors. While IBM is constantly ushering in new technology it does so by:  
     
               Leading in data responsibility, ethics and transparency; 
     
               Preparing workforces of the world; 
     
               Continuing the company s century-long commitment to diversity and inclusion, and 
     
               Remaining grounded in a set of enduring IBM Values: 
     
      Dedication to every client s success 
     
      Innovation that matters   for our company and for the world 
     
      Trust and personal responsibility in all relationships 
     
  IBM has built a reputation and track record of trust with its clients for more than a century. IBM safeguards a client s privacy, data and insights. For example, IBM was one of the first companies to appoint a Chief Privacy Officer, to develop and publish a genetics privacy policy, to be certified under the APEC Cross Borders Privacy Rules system and to sign the EU Data Protection Code of Conduct for Cloud Service Providers.  
     
  ****  
     
  This is an era where being faster, more productive and lower cost is important but frankly not enough. To win, a business must be smarter: Being smarter means having deeper expertise, extracting better insights from data and being capable of rapidly changing the way in which one does work.  
     
  This is core to the strategy of IBM s clients and is at the heart of the IBM strategy.  
     
   Business Model   
     
  The company s business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to move from one era to the next by bringing together innovative technology and industry expertise, and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.  
     
 31   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company s global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions and platforms to the company s clients.  
     
  The business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including the company s transformation into cloud and as-a-Service delivery models. The company continues to strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas, broadening its industry expertise and integrating AI into more of what the company offers. In addition, the company is transforming into a more agile enterprise to drive innovation and speed, as well as helping to drive productivity, which supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity.  
     
  This business model, supported by the company s financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term.  
     
   Business Segments and Capabilities   
     
  The company s major operations consist of five business segments: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, Systems and Global Financing.  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   comprises a broad portfolio of capabilities that help IBM s clients to identify actionable new insights and inform decision-making for competitive advantage. Leveraging IBM s research, technology and industry expertise, this business delivers a full spectrum of capabilities, from descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics to cognitive systems. Cognitive Solutions includes Watson, the first commercially available AI platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, process vast amounts of big data, and learn from interactions with people and systems. These solutions are provided through the most contemporary delivery methods including through cloud environments and  as-a-Service  models. Cognitive Solutions consists of Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software. 
     
   Cognitive Solutions Capabilities   
     
   Solutions Software:   provides the basis for many of the company s strategic areas. IBM has established the world s deepest portfolio of data and analytics solutions, including analytics and data management platforms, cloud data services, talent management solutions, and solutions tailored by industry. Watson Platform, Watson Health and Watson Internet of Things (IoT) are certain capabilities included in Solutions Software. IBM s world-class security platform delivers integrated security intelligence across clients  entire operations, including their cloud, applications, networks and data, helping them to prevent, detect and remediate potential threats. 
     
   Transaction Processing Software:   includes software that primarily runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail. Most of this software is on-premise and annuity in nature. 
     
   Global Business Services (GBS)   provides clients with consulting, application management services and business process services. These professional services deliver value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry, technology and business strategy and process expertise. GBS is the digital reinvention partner for IBM clients, combining industry knowledge, functional expertise, and applications with the power of business design and cognitive and cloud technologies. The full portfolio of GBS services is backed by its globally integrated delivery network and integration with technologies, solutions and services from IBM units including IBM Watson, IBM Cloud, IBM Research, and Global Technology Services. 
     
  In 2017, GBS deployed a new operating model designed to address specific client digital transformation imperatives and take full advantage of IBM and GBS s competitive differentiators in industry, cognitive and cloud. The operating model features Digital Strategy and iX, Cognitive Process Transformation and Cloud Application Innovation. To bring value at scale to clients around the world, GBS has implemented global service lines within each of the three focus areas, which are populated with new practices staffed by practitioners with deep domain skills and industry expertise.  
     
   GBS Capabilities   
     
   Consulting:   provides business consulting services focused on bringing to market solutions that help clients shape their digital blueprints and customer experiences, define their cognitive operating models, unlock the potential in all data to improve decision-making, set their next-generation talent strategies and create new technology architectures in a cloud-centric world. 
     
   Application Management:   delivers system integration, application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as security and privacy, application testing and modernization, cloud application migration and automation. 
     
   Global Process Services:   delivers finance, procurement, talent and engagement, and industry-specific business process outsourcing services. These services deliver improved business results to clients through our consult-to-operate model which includes the strategic change and/or operation of the client s processes, applications and infrastructure. GBS is redefining process services for both growth and efficiency through the application of the power of cognitive technologies like Watson, as well as the IoT, blockchain and deep analytics. 
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   provides comprehensive IT infrastructure services creating business value for clients. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM s global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading-edge, high-quality services with improved outcomes in productivity, flexibility and cost. 
     
 32   

Management Discussion    
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms Capabilities   
     
   Infrastructure Services:   delivers a portfolio of cloud, project-based, outsourcing and other managed services focused on clients  enterprise IT infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation and deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The portfolio includes a comprehensive set of hybrid cloud services and solutions to assist clients in building and running enterprise IT environments that utilize public and private clouds and traditional IT. The IBM Cloud Platform offers leading-edge services to developers and IBM s Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service covers a wide variety of workloads with high-quality performance. These offerings integrate long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to utilize the power of new technologies, drawn from across IBM s businesses and ecosystem partners. The portfolio is built around a key set of predictive and proactive solutions addressing systems, mobility, resiliency, networking, cloud and security. The company s capabilities, including IBM Cloud, cognitive computing and hybrid cloud implementation, provide high-performance, end-to-end innovation and an improved ability to achieve business objectives. 
     
   Technical Support Services:   delivers comprehensive support services to maintain and improve the availability of clients  IT infrastructures. These offerings include maintenance for IBM products and other technology platforms, as well as software and solution support, drawing on innovative technologies and leveraging the Watson platform s predictive capabilities. 
     
   Integration Software:   delivers industry-leading hybrid cloud solutions that empower clients to achieve rapid innovation, hybrid integration, and process transformation with choice and consistency across public, dedicated and local cloud environments, leveraging the IBM Platform-as-a-Service solution. Integration Software offerings and capabilities help clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses. 
     
   Systems   provides clients with innovative infrastructure platforms to help meet the new requirements of hybrid cloud and cognitive workloads. Approximately half of Systems Hardware s server and storage sales transactions are through the company s business partners, with the balance direct to end-user clients. IBM Systems also designs advanced semiconductor and systems technology in collaboration with IBM Research, primarily for use in the company s systems. 
     
   Systems Capabilities   
     
   Servers:   a range of high-performance systems designed to address computing capacity, security and performance needs of businesses, hyperscale cloud service providers and scientific computing organizations. The portfolio includes IBM Z, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight, and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data and analytics, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER. 
     
   Storage:   data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information and to fuel data-centric cognitive applications. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software-defined storage solutions, flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions. 
     
   Operating Systems Software:   The company s z/OS is a security-rich, scalable, high-performance enterprise operating system for IBM Z. Power Systems offers a choice of AIX or Linux operating systems. These operating systems leverage POWER architecture to deliver secure, reliable and high performing enterprise-class workloads across a breadth of server offerings. 
     
   Global Financing   encompasses two primary businesses: financing, primarily conducted through IBM Credit LLC (IBM Credit), and remanufacturing and remarketing. In 2017, the company reorganized its client and commercial financing business as a wholly owned subsidiary, IBM Credit LLC, and it began accessing the capital markets directly in September 2017. IBM Credit, through its financing solutions, facilitates IBM clients  acquisition of information technology systems, software and services in the areas where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users  business operations. The company conducts a comprehensive credit evaluation of its clients prior to extending financing. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks associated with financing, credit and residual value, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with the company s clients through various stages of the IT asset life cycle from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions. 
     
   Global Financing Capabilities   
     
   Client Financing:   lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily new and used IT hardware, software and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Technology Services   Cloud Platforms  long-term client service contracts. All internal financing arrangements are at arm s-length rates and are based upon market conditions. 
     
   Commercial Financing:   short-term working capital financing to suppliers, distributors and resellers of IBM and OEM products and services. This includes internal activity where Global Financing factors a selected portion of the company s accounts receivable primarily for cash management purposes, at arm s-length rates. 
     
 33   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Remanufacturing and Remarketing:   assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used and surplus equipment acquired internally or externally. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms. Systems may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. 
     
   IBM Worldwide Organizations   
     
  The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM s delivery of value to its clients:  
     
                   Global Markets 
     
                   Research, Development and Intellectual Property 
     
   Global Markets   
     
  IBM has a global presence, operating in more than 175 countries with a broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company s Global Markets organization manages IBM s global footprint, working closely with dedicated country-based operating units to serve clients locally. These country teams have client relationship managers who lead integrated teams of consultants, solution specialists and delivery professionals to enable clients  growth and innovation.  
     
  By complementing local expertise with global experience and digital capabilities, IBM builds deep and broad-based client relationships. This local management focus fosters speed in supporting clients, addressing new markets and making investments in emerging opportunities. The Global Markets organization serves clients with expertise in their industry as well as through the products and services that IBM and partners supply. IBM is also expanding its reach to new and existing clients through digital marketplaces, digital sales and local Business Partner resources.  
     
   Research, Development and Intellectual Property   
     
  IBM s research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests 7 to 8 percent of total revenue for R D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company s business units through global labs on near-term and mid-term innovations. It delivers many new technologies to IBM s portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research scientists are conducting pioneering work in artificial intelligence, quantum computing, blockchain, security, cloud, nanotechnology, silicon and post-silicon computing architectures and more applying these technologies across industries including healthcare, IoT, education and financial services.  
     
  In 2017, for the 25th consecutive year, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company. IBM s 9,043 patents awarded in 2017 represent a diverse range of inventions in artificial intelligence, cloud, cybersecurity and other strategic growth areas for the company.  
     
  The company continues to actively seek IP protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership. Some of IBM s technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. As part of its business model, the company licenses certain of its intellectual property, which is high-value technology, but may be in more mature markets. The licensee drives the future development of the IP and ultimately expands the customer base. This would generate IP income for the company both upon licensing, and with any ongoing royalty arrangements between it and the licensee. While the company s various proprietary IP rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products.  
     
 34   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   YEAR IN REVIEW   
     
   Results of Continuing Operations   
     
   Segment Details   
     
  The following is an analysis of the 2017 versus 2016 reportable segment results. The table below presents each reportable segment s external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

35   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Cognitive Solutions revenue of $18,453 million grew 1.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency in 2017 compared to the prior year. On an as-reported and constant currency basis, there was growth in Solutions Software, which addresses many of the company s strategic areas, while Transaction Processing Software was relatively flat year to year.  
     
  Solutions Software revenue of $12,806 million grew 1.7 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year led by key areas including security, industry platforms and Watson offerings, as the company continued to embed cognitive into its security offerings and drive vertical solutions. In 2017, the company continued to expand the market for Watson Health which had strong double-digit revenue growth as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. Most of the strategic areas within Solutions Software have a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) delivery model and the company continues to build scale in these areas. For the full year, there was year-to-year growth in annuity revenue as reported and at constant currency with strong double-digit growth in SaaS revenue as reported and adjusted for currency.  
     
  Transaction Processing Software revenue of $5,647 million grew 0.9 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency) in 2017 compared to the prior year. In the second half of 2017, there was improved revenue performance with growth both sequentially versus the first half 2017 and year to year as reported and adjusted for currency reflecting clients  ongoing long-term commitment and the value the company s platform provides to them. This portfolio predominately runs on-premise mission critical workloads running on IBM Z in industries such as banking, airlines and retail.  
     
  Cognitive Solutions total strategic imperatives revenue of $12.0 billion grew 2 percent year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. Cloud revenue of $2.5 billion grew 19 percent as reported and adjusted for currency, with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $2.1 billion.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 3.2 points to 78.6 percent in 2017 compared to the prior year. The gross profit margin decline year to year was driven by continued investment and an increasing mix toward SaaS which has a different margin profile than traditional software delivery offerings and is not yet at scale. Margins were impacted by a higher level of royalty cost associated with IP licensing agreements in 2017 compared to the prior year.  
     
  Pre-tax income of $6,817 million increased 7.3 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin improvement of 1.8 points to 32.3 percent as the company continues to invest to embed cognitive into offerings, scale platforms and build high-value vertical solutions.  
     
 36   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Global Business Services   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Global Business Services revenue of $16,348 million decreased 2.1 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency in 2017 compared to the prior year. The company continues to transform this business and shift its practices to digital, cognitive and cloud. GBS signings grew each quarter of the year as reported and adjusted for currency, and strategic imperatives revenue for the full year 2017 had strong growth year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. However, this growth continues to be more than offset by declines in the more traditional areas that the company is shifting away from such as large ERP and on-premise enterprise application implementation.  
     
  Consulting revenue of $7,262 million decreased 1.0 percent year to year as reported (flat adjusted for currency). There was improved performance in the second half of 2017 with revenue growth both sequentially versus the first half of 2017 and year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. The improvement was driven by the company s digital strategy and iX platform, and a return to growth as reported and at constant currency in the Consulting backlog. Global Process Services (GPS) revenue of $1,265 million decreased 8.8 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Application Management revenue of $7,821 million decreased 2.0 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency). The company continues to help clients implement new cloud-centric architectures in their critical applications. However, overall revenue performance in Application Management was impacted by certain areas that are not as differentiated and are experiencing pricing pressure, as well as the successful completion of some large contracts.  
     
  Within GBS, total strategic imperatives revenue of $9.8 billion grew 10 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $4.0 billion grew 34 percent as reported (35 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.3 billion.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

GBS gross profit margin decreased 1.8 points to 25.2 percent year to year and pre-tax income of $1,401 million decreased 19.1 percent year to year. The pre-tax margin declined 1.7 points to 8.4 percent. Pre-tax income performance for the year included a lower level of charges related to workforce rebalancing and real estate actions as compared to the prior year.  
     
  GBS margin has been impacted by investments to drive transformation and reflects pricing and profit pressure in the more traditional IT services. The company will continue to focus on improving productivity with a streamlined practice model and new project management approaches.  
     
 37   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue of $34,277 million decreased 3.0 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency in 2017 compared to the prior year. For the full year, there were declines across all lines of business, however, within the segment there was strong revenue growth year to year in cloud, analytics, mobile and security, as reported and adjusted for currency.  
     
  Infrastructure Services revenue of $22,690 million declined 3.6 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. In Infrastructure Services, the business model is to deliver productivity to clients and then grow by expanding the scope of work and adding new clients to the platform. The revenue decline in 2017 reflects the continued impact associated with contract conclusions at the end of 2016 and the shift away from certain lower value work within this business. During 2017, there were some substantial new transactions signed to implement hybrid cloud environments. Technical Support Services revenue of $7,196 million decreased 1.0 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Within this line of business, the company is focused on growing its multi-vendor support services which provide clients with a single source of expertise and visibility across different vendor solutions. Integration Software full-year revenue of $4,390 million decreased 2.9 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. While the annuity base remains relatively stable and there was strong double-digit growth in SaaS offerings, transactional revenue declined year to year as more of this portfolio shifts to the IBM Cloud.  
     
  Within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, strategic imperatives revenue of $10.4 billion grew 19 percent year to year as reported (18 percent adjusted for currency). Cloud revenue of $7.1 billion grew 21 percent as reported (20 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $6.9 billion.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms gross profit margin decreased 1.5 points year to year in 2017 to 40.4 percent driven primarily by large contract conclusions, delays in productivity improvements, mix from Integration Software and investments in cloud. The current-year margin reflects savings from the prior-year workforce transformation action. Pre-tax income of $4,344 million decreased 7.7 percent. The pre-tax margin declined 0.6 points year to year to 12.4 percent. The year-to-year performance in 2017 compared to the prior year includes a lower level of charges related to workforce and real estate actions.  
     
  The company continues to focus on scaling its platforms, delivering productivity through automation, infusing AI into its offerings and investing to expand its cloud infrastructure. There are approximately 60 cloud centers across 19 countries providing clients with flexibility in how and where they store their data. However, these investments to transform the business continued to impact margins in 2017.  
     
 38   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Services Backlog and Signings   
     
  ($ in billions)  

The estimated total services backlog at December 31, 2017 was $121 billion, an increase of 1.9 percent as reported (decrease of 3 percent adjusted for currency). There was growth in Global Technology Services backlog as reported, but a decrease year to year adjusted for currency. GBS backlog decreased year to year as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the December 31, 2016 balance.  
     
  Total services backlog includes Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services, Application Management and Technical Support Services. Total backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract for these businesses and therefore includes Technical Support Services. It does not include as-a-Service offerings that have flexibility in contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency.  
     
  Services signings are management s initial estimate of the value of a client s commitment under a services contract. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs.  
     
  Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Technical Support Services is not included in signings as the maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals.  
     
  Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company s requirements for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Systems   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Systems revenue of $8,194 million grew 6.2 percent year to year as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2017 driven by a combination of strong z14 market acceptance and four consecutive quarters of growth as reported and adjusted for currency in Storage Systems. Systems Hardware revenue of $6,494 million grew 9.6 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) with growth in IBM Z and Storage Systems partially offset by a decrease in Power Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency. Operating Systems Software revenue of $1,701 million decreased 4.9 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.  
     
  Within Systems Hardware, IBM Z revenue grew 24.0 percent as reported (22 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, driven by the successful launch of the z14 mainframe in the third quarter of 2017. This success is due to the strong demand for technology that helps address the growing threat of global data breaches and the need for clients to operate within regulated environments. With unprecedented encryption capabilities, there has been strong demand for the z14 across a mix of industries and geographies since its introduction. The company s mainframe is a franchise that continues to deliver a high value, secure and scalable platform that clients rely on for their mission critical applications.  
     
 39   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Power Systems revenue decreased 3.7 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year with revenue growth in the company s high-end portfolio more than offset by declines in mid-range and low-range products, as reported and adjusted for currency. Overall performance reflects the company s continued shift to a growing Linux market while continuing to serve a high-value, but declining UNIX market. Linux revenue grew year to year as reported and adjusted for currency, while UNIX revenue declined as reported and adjusted for currency in 2017. In the fourth quarter of 2017, Power Systems revenue returned to growth as reported and adjusted for currency, and the company released its next generation POWER9 system in the low-end Linux portfolio. With the new POWER9 processor, these systems bring unprecedented speed to AI workloads.  
     
  Storage Systems revenue increased by 7.7 percent as reported (7 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. With the company s most competitive storage offerings in some time, there was growth as reported and adjusted for currency in each quarter of the year. All-flash array offerings were a catalyst for Storage Systems growth in 2017 with strong double-digit growth as reported and adjusted for currency throughout the year.  
     
  Within Systems, total strategic imperatives revenue of $4.3 billion grew 28 percent year to year as reported (26 percent adjusted for currency). Cloud revenue of $3.4 billion grew 26 percent as reported (25 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The Systems gross profit margin decreased 2.5 points to 53.2 percent in 2017 compared to the prior year. The overall decrease year to year was driven by margin declines across all product lines, partially offset by product mix primarily toward the higher margin IBM Z, reflecting product cycle dynamics.  
     
  Pre-tax income of $1,135 million grew 21.6 percent and pre-tax margin increased 1.7 points year to year to 12.7 percent driven by the strong performance in Systems Hardware.  
     
  Overall Systems performance in 2017 reflected a successful repositioning of the business through continuous reinvention of core platforms and expansion into new workloads.  
     
   Global Financing   
     
  Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. Global Financing facilitates IBM clients  acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise, while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment and used equipment purchased externally. Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio.  
     
   Results of Operations   
     
  ($ in millions)  

40   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In 2017, Global Financing delivered external revenue of $1,696 million and total revenue of $3,168 million, with a decline in gross margin of 6.7 points. Total pre-tax income of $1,279 million decreased 22.7 percent compared to 2016 and return on equity increased 2.3 points to 32.9 percent.  
     
  Global Financing total revenue of $3,168 million decreased 9.3 percent compared to the prior year. This was due to a decline in internal revenue of 18.4 percent, driven by a decrease in internal used equipment sales (down 25.2 percent to $1,111 million) partially offset by an increase in internal financing (up 13.9 percent to $360 million). External revenue grew 0.3 percent due to an increase in external used equipment sales (up 14.9 percent to $530 million), partially offset by a decline in external financing (down 5.2 percent to $1,167 million).  
     
  The decrease in external financing revenue was due to lower asset yields, partially offset by an increase in average asset balances. The increase in internal financing revenue was primarily due to higher average asset balances and higher asset yields.  
     
  Global Financing pre-tax income decreased 22.7 percent year to year in 2017 primarily driven by a decrease in gross profit ($430 million), partially offset by a decline in financing receivables provisions ($52 million). This decrease was primarily due to lower reserves in Brazil in the current year. At December 31, 2017 the overall allowance for credit losses coverage rate was 1.1 percent, a decrease of 48 basis points year over year primarily due to the write-off of previously reserved receivables.  
     
  The increase in return on equity from 2016 to 2017 was primarily due to a lower average equity balance. See page 48 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculations.  
     
  Total unguaranteed residual value of leases at December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $724 million and $725 million, respectively. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease.  
     
  Third-party residual value guarantees increase the minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $716 million and $329 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. In 2017, the residual value guarantee program resulted in the company recognizing approximately $452 million of revenue that would otherwise have been recognized in future periods as operating lease revenue. If the company had chosen to not participate in a residual value guarantee program in 2017 and prior years, the 2017 impact would be substantially mitigated by the effect of prior year asset values being recognized as operating lease revenue in the current year. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of direct financing leases were $154 million and $169 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $45 million and $19 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The cost of guarantees was $4 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
   Geographic Revenue   
     
  In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. The following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance excludes OEM revenue.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Total geographic revenue of $78,793 million in 2017 decreased 1.0 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.  
     
 41   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Americas revenue was essentially flat year to year as reported, but decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency with a decline in North America partially offset by growth in Latin America, both as reported and adjusted for currency. Within North America, the U.S. decreased 1.4 percent and Canada increased 4.9 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). In Latin America, Brazil increased 7.6 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) and Mexico increased 9.2 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  EMEA revenue decreased 1.7 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency. Revenue declined in the UK and Germany, while there was growth in France and Spain. The UK decreased 11.2 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) and Germany decreased 3.2 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). France increased 6.3 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency), and Spain was up 8.3 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  Asia Pacific revenue decreased 2.0 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Japan decreased 1.1 percent as reported, but increased 2 percent adjusted for currency. India grew 8.6 percent as reported and 5 percent adjusted for currency. China decreased 10.6 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) and Australia decreased 5.8 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
   Total Expense and Other (Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  For additional information regarding total expense and other (income) for both expense presentations, see the following analyses by category.  
     
   Selling, General and Administrative   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense decreased 4.6 percent in 2017 versus 2016, driven primarily by the following factors:  
     
        Lower workforce rebalancing charges (4 points); and 
     
        Lower spending (2 points); partially offset by 
     
        Spending related to acquisitions in the prior 12 months (1 point); and 
     
        Higher retirement-related costs (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) expense decreased 5.9 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Bad debt expense decreased $32 million in 2017 compared to 2016. The receivables provision coverage was 1.6 percent at December 31, 2017, a decrease of 40 basis points from December 31, 2016.  
     
 42   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Research, Development and Engineering   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Research, development and engineering (RD E) expense was 7.3 percent of revenue in 2017 and 7.2 percent of revenue in 2016.  
     
  RD E expense increased 0.6 percent in 2017 versus 2016 primarily driven by:  
     
        The impact of acquisitions completed in the prior 12-month period (1 point); and 
     
        The effects of currency; partially offset by 
     
        Lower spending, net of higher retirement-related costs (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) RD E expense decreased 2.3 percent in 2017 compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the same factors, excluding higher non-operating retirement-related costs.  
     
   Intellectual Property and Custom   
   Development Income   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Licensing of intellectual property including royalty-based fees decreased 14.1 percent in 2017 compared to 2016. The company entered into new partnership agreements in 2017, which included three transactions with period income greater than $100 million, compared to four transactions greater than $100 million in 2016. The company licenses IP to partners who allocate their skills to extend the value of assets that are high value, but may be in mature markets. The timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development.  
     
   Other (Income) and Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total consolidated other (income) and expense was income of $216 million in 2017 compared to expense of $145 million in 2016. The decrease in expense of $361 million year over year was primarily driven by:  
     
                   Real estate capacity charges (reflected in Other in the table above) in the prior year related to workforce transformation ($328 million); 
     
                   Lower net exchange losses ($81 million); 
     
                   Reduced losses from securities and investment assets ($43 million), primarily related to the sale of Lenovo shares in 2016; and 
     
                   Higher interest income ($36 million); partially offset by 
     
                   Lower gains on divestitures ($61 million). 
     
   Interest Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Interest expense decreased $15 million compared to 2016. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings only if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) in 2017 was $1,273 million, an increase of $67 million year to year, primarily driven by higher average interest rates.  
     
 43   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Stock-Based Compensation   
     
  Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost of $534 million decreased $10 million compared to 2016. This was due primarily to decreases related to the conversion of stock-based awards previously issued by acquired entities ($23 million) and performance share units ($14 million); partially offset by an increase in restricted stock units ($27 million). Stock-based compensation cost, and the year-to-year change, was reflected in the following categories: Cost: $91 million, up $3 million; SG A expense: $384 million, down $16 million and RD E expense: $59 million, up $3 million.  
     
   Retirement-Related Plans   
     
  The following table provides the total pre-tax cost for all retirement-related plans. These amounts are included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the caption (e.g., Cost, SG A, RD E) relating to the job function of the plan participants.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost increased by $854 million compared to 2016, primarily driven by lower expected return on plan assets ($1,217 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($120 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($339 million) and other costs ($162 million) primarily due to impacts from pension litigation in both years.  
     
  As discussed in the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in 2017 were $1,388 million, a decrease of $17 million compared to 2016, primarily driven by lower defined contribution plans cost ($23 million). Non-operating costs of $1,468 million increased $871 million in 2017 compared to 2016, driven primarily by lower expected return on plan assets ($1,217 million) and an increase in recognized actuarial losses ($120 million); partially offset by lower interest costs ($339 million) and other costs ($162 million) primarily due to impacts from pension litigation in both years. Effective January 1, 2018, the company adopted the new FASB guidance on presentation of net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit costs, and as a result, beginning in 2018, the company will align its presentation of operating and non-operating costs to the FASB presentation. Prior period non-operating cost/(income) will be recast for comparability.  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2017 was 49.5 percent, an increase of 45.8 points versus the prior year. The fourth quarter charge of $5.5 billion related to the impact of the enactment of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act resulted in an increase to the effective tax rate of 48.0 points. Without this impact, the continuing operations tax rate would have been 1.5 percent compared to a 2016 rate of 3.6 percent, with the remaining change in the rate year to year driven by the following factors:  
     
                   An increased benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits of 5.4 points; 
     
                   A benefit related to an intra-entity asset transfer in the first quarter of 2017 of 5.1 points; 
     
                   A benefit due to the tax write down of an investment in the fourth quarter of 2017 of 1.7 points; and 
     
                   A benefit due to the geographic mix of pre-tax earnings in 2017 of 1.0 points; partially offset by 
     
                   The favorable resolution of the longstanding tax matter in Japan in 2016 of 9.5 points; and 
     
                   An increase year to year in tax charges related to intercompany payments of 1.5 points. 
     
  The continuing operations operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate was 6.7 percent, an increase of 0.3 points versus 2016, principally driven by the same factors described above. In 2017, the geographic and product mix of pre-tax earnings were more favorable than the company expected and there was increased utilization of foreign tax credits. These impacts drove the underlying continuing operations operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate to approximately 12 percent before discrete period benefits.  
     
  For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act impact, see note N,  Taxes,  on pages 121 and 124.  
     
 44   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Earnings Per Share   
     
  Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.  

*          Includes a charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform, or $5.84 of diluted earnings per share in 2017. 
     
  Actual shares outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016 were 922.2 million and 945.9 million, respectively. The average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution was 21.3 million shares lower in 2017 versus 2016. The decrease was primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program.  
     
   Financial Position   
       
   Dynamics   
     
  At December 31, 2017, the company continued to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at year end were $12,580 million. During the year, the company continued to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.  
     
  Total debt of $46,824 million increased $4,655 million from prior year-end levels. The commercial paper balance at December 31, 2017, was $1,496 million, an increase of $597 million from the prior year end. Within total debt, $31,434 million is in support of the Global Financing business which is leveraged at a 9.0 to 1 ratio. The company continues to have substantial flexibility in the debt markets. During 2017, the company completed bond issuances totaling $7,986 million, with terms ranging from 2 to 12 years, and interest rates ranging from 0.95 to 3.30 percent depending on maturity. This includes IBM Credit s first public debt issuance of $3,000 million in September 2017. The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its Credit Facilities.  
     
  Consistent with accounting standards, the company remeasured the funded status of its retirement and postretirement plans at December 31. At December 31, 2017, the overall net underfunded position was $12,890 million, a decrease of $1,949 million from December 31, 2016 driven by asset returns, partially offset by interest cost and a decrease in discount rates. At year end, the company s qualified defined benefit plans were well funded and the cash requirements related to these plans remain stable going forward at approximately $400 million per year through 2020. In 2017, the return on the U.S. Personal Pension Plan assets was 9.6 percent and the plan was 104 percent funded at December 31. Overall, global asset returns were 8.3 percent and the qualified defined benefit plans worldwide were 100 percent funded at December 31, 2017.  
     
  During 2017, the company generated $16,724 million in cash from operations, a decrease of $360 million compared to 2016. In addition, the company generated $12,992 million in free cash flow, an increase of $1,293 million versus the prior year. See page 68 for additional information on free cash flow. The company returned $9,847 million to shareholders in 2017, with $5,506 million in dividends and $4,340 million in gross share repurchases. In 2017, the company repurchased 27.2 million shares and had $3.8 billion remaining in share repurchase authorization at year end. The company s cash generation permits the company to invest and deploy capital to areas with the most attractive long-term opportunities.  
     
   Global Financing Financial Position Key Metrics:   
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)      Includes intercompany mark-up, priced on an arm s-length basis, on products purchased from the company s product divisions which is eliminated in IBM s consolidated results. 
  (2)      Entire amount eliminated for purposes of IBM s consolidated results and therefore does not appear on page 80. 
  (3)      These assets, along with all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at the value in the table using Global Financing debt. 
     
 45   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  At December 31, 2017, substantially all financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 53 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment-grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. The improvement in investment-grade year to year (1 point) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the company s approach to the market. This investment-grade percentage is based on credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. Additionally, the company takes actions to transfer exposure to third parties. On that basis, the investment-grade content would increase by 17 points to 70 percent, an increase of 5 points year to year.  
     
  The company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigation actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, nonrecourse borrowings, transfers of receivables recorded as true sales in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease.  
     
   IBM Working Capital   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Working capital increased $4,760 million from the year-end 2016 position. The key changes are described below:  
     
  Current assets increased $5,847 million ($3,239 million adjusted for currency), as a result of:  
     
                   An increase of $4,053 million ($3,105 million adjusted for currency) in cash and marketable securities; and 
     
                   An increase of $2,386 million ($993 million adjusted for currency) in receivables driven by financing receivables; partially offset by 
     
                   A decrease of $622 million ($841 million adjusted for currency) in prepaid expenses and other current assets. 
     
  Current liabilities increased $1,087 million (a decrease of $542 million adjusted for currency), as a result of:  
     
                   An increase in taxes of $984 million ($849 million adjusted for currency); and 
     
                   An increase in deferred income of $517 million driven by currency-related increases of $583 million; partially offset by 
     
                   A decrease in short-term debt of $526 million ($537 million adjusted for currency). 
     
   Receivables and Allowances   
     
   Roll Forward of Total IBM Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Additions for Allowance for Credit Losses are charged to expense. 
     
  **Refer to note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 92 and 93 for additional information regarding Allowance for Credit Loss write-offs.  
     
  +            Primarily represents translation adjustments. 
     
  The total IBM receivables provision coverage was 1.6 percent at December 31, 2017, a decrease of 40 basis points compared to December 31, 2016. The majority of the write-offs during 2017 related to Global Financing receivables, which had been previously reserved.  
     
   Global Financing Receivables and Allowances   
     
  The following table presents external financing receivables excluding residual values, and the allowance for credit losses:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved was 1.1 percent at December 31, 2017, compared to 1.6 percent at December 31, 2016. In 2017, write-offs of $144 million of receivables previously reserved, primarily in China, resulted in a 23 percent reduction in the specific reserves, from $335 million at December 31, 2016, to $258 million at December 31, 2017. See note F,  Financing Receivables,  on page 107 for additional information. Unallocated reserves decreased 24 percent from $103 million at December 31, 2016, to $78 million at December 31, 2017 due to higher general reserve requirements in Brazil in the prior year.  
     
 46   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Roll Forward of Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses (included in Total IBM)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Additions for Allowance for Credit Losses are charged to expense. 
     
  **Refer to note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 92 and 93 for additional information regarding Allowance for Credit Loss write-offs.  
     
  +            Primarily represents translation adjustments. 
     
  Global Financing s bad debt expense was $17 million in 2017, compared to $69 million in 2016. The year-to-year decrease in bad debt expense was primarily due to lower general reserve requirements in Brazil.  
     
   Noncurrent Assets and Liabilities   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The increase in noncurrent assets of $2,039 million (a decrease of $233 million adjusted for currency) was driven by:  
     
              An increase in prepaid pension assets of $1,609 million ($1,357 million adjusted for currency) driven by the expected returns on plan assets partially offset by interest costs. 
     
  Long-term debt increased $5,182 million ($4,120 million adjusted for currency) driven by:  
     
              Bond issuances of $7,986 million; partially offset by 
     
              Current upcoming maturities of long-term debt of $5,214 million. 
     
  Other noncurrent liabilities, excluding debt, increased $2,285 million ($378 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by:  
     
              An increase of $2,488 million ($1,953 million adjusted for currency) in other liabilities driven by the charge associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform. 
     
   Debt   
     
  The company s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. These assets, primarily for Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, generate long-term, stable revenue streams similar to the Global Financing asset portfolio. Based on their attributes, these Technology Services   Cloud Platforms assets are leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base. The increase in debt was consistent with the company s expectations in 2017 to increase leverage in the Global Financing business.  
     
  Non-Global Financing debt of $15,390 million was up $1,081 million from prior year-end levels.  
     
  Consolidated debt-to-capitalization ratio at December 31, 2017 was 72.5 percent, which includes a 5.7 point impact from the onetime charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform in 2017, versus 69.6 percent at December 31, 2016.  
     
  Given the significant leverage, the company also presents a debt-to-capitalization ratio which excludes Global Financing debt and equity as management believes this is more representative of the company s core business operations. This ratio can vary from period to period as the company manages its global cash and debt positions.  Core  debt-to-capitalization ratio (excluding Global Financing debt and equity) was 51.9 percent at December 31, 2017, which includes an 8.1 point impact from the charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform in 2017, compared to 49.5 percent at December 31, 2016.  

The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term, currency and interest rate variability underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm s-length pricing.  
     
 47   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing s external client and internal business is included in the  Global Financing Results of Operations  on page 40 and in note T,  Segment Information,  on pages 142 to 146. In the company s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense.  
     
   Equity   
     
  Total equity decreased by $667 million from December 31, 2016 as a result of an increase in treasury stock of $4,457 million mainly due to gross common stock repurchases, partially offset by lower accumulated other comprehensive losses of $2,806 million primarily due to retirement plan remeasurements, an increase in common stock of $631 million and an increase in retained earnings of $368 million.  
     
   Cash Flow   
     
  The company s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 81 are summarized in the table below. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

* Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on share-based compensation.  
     
  Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $360 million in 2017 driven by the following key factors:  
     
              Performance-related declines within net income; and 
     
              An increase in cash income tax payments of $519 million; partially offset by 
     
              An increase in cash provided by receivables of $585 million. 
     
  Net cash used in investing activities decreased $3,881 million driven by:  
     
              A decrease in cash used related to acquisitions of $5,184 million, partially offset by an increase of net non-operating financing receivables of $1,137 million. 
     
  Net cash used in financing activities increased $502 million as compared to the prior year driven by the following factors:  
     
              An increase of $838 million of cash used for gross common share repurchases; partially offset by 
     
              An increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions of $683 million driven by a higher level of issuances in the current year. 
     
   Global Financing Return on Equity Calculation   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Calculated based upon an estimated tax rate principally based on Global Financing s geographic mix of earnings as IBM s provision for income taxes is determined on a consolidated basis. 
     
  **Average of the ending equity for Global Financing for the last five quarters.  
     
 48   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   GAAP Reconciliation   
     
  The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Please refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27 for the company s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
  (1)      Operating (non-GAAP) earnings excludes a charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform due to its unique non-recurring nature. 
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
 49   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Consolidated Fourth-Quarter Results   
     
  ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*                    0.9 percent adjusted for currency. 
  **             Includes a charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform, or $5.91 of diluted earnings per share in 2017. 
  NM Not meaningful  
     
  The following table provides the company s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for the fourth quarter of 2017 and 2016.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*                    See page 55 for a more detailed reconciliation of net income to operating (non-GAAP) earnings. 
  **             Includes a charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform in December 2017. 
  NM Not meaningful  
     
   Snapshot   
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2017, the company reported $22.5 billion in revenue and a loss from continuing operations of $1.1 billion, which included a charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform. Fourth-quarter operating (non-GAAP) earnings was $4.8 billion, which excludes the one-time charge. Fourth-quarter diluted earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations was $(1.14) as reported and operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $5.18. The company generated $5.7 billion in cash from operations and $6.8 billion in free cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2017 and shareholder returns of $2.1 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.  
     
 50   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In the fourth quarter, the company continued to deliver solid growth in its strategic imperatives which generated $11.1 billion of revenue and grew 17 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency, led by cloud and security, as the company continues to embed AI and cloud into its offerings. The strategic imperatives are not separate businesses, they are offerings across the segments that address opportunities in analytics, cloud, security and mobile. Strategic imperatives growth in the fourth quarter continued to largely represent organic growth as the acquisitive content has leveled on a year-to-year basis. Total Cloud revenue of $5.5 billion increased 30 percent as reported and 27 percent adjusted for currency as the company enables clients to implement comprehensive cloud solutions. Cloud-asa-Service revenue was up 20 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) and the annual exit run rate for as-a-Service revenue increased to $10.3 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to $9.4 billion in the third quarter of 2017. Analytics revenue of $6.1 billion increased 9 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency). Mobile revenue increased 23 percent (21 percent adjusted for currency) and Security revenue more than doubled year to year, reflecting the strong demand for the pervasive encryption capabilities in IBM Z and good performance in both managed security services within Technology   Cloud Platforms and in security software.  
     
  From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue increased 2.5 percent as reported, flat adjusted for currency, led by growth in Transaction Processing Software, driven by middleware as clients continued to invest and grow their high-value, mission critical workloads on the IBM Z platform. Solutions Software revenue increased year to year as reported, but declined adjusted for currency. Cognitive Solutions performance in the fourth quarter included growth in annuity revenue, including double-digit growth in as-a-Service solutions. Global Business Services (GBS) revenue increased 0.7 percent as reported, but decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency. Growth in Consulting, led by the digital offerings was partially offset by declines in Global Process Services and Application Management. This was the second consecutive quarter of revenue growth in Consulting. GBS strategic imperatives revenue increased 9 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency), led by the cloud practice, analytics and mobile. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue decreased 1.2 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency, primarily driven by a decline in Infrastructure Services. However, within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, strategic imperatives revenue was up 15 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency, driven by hybrid cloud services, security and mobile. Systems revenue increased 31.7 percent as reported and 28 percent adjusted for currency with growth in all three brands IBM Z, Power Systems and Storage Systems. This was the first full quarter of revenue since the announcement of the z14, and with pervasive encryption and the ability to address new technologies such as blockchain, the company is adding new clients and new workloads to the platform.  
     
  From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue increased 4.6 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, with growth in the U.S., Latin America and Canada. This represented sequential improvement of 6.6 points as reported (6 points adjusted for currency) compared to the year-to-year third quarter 2017 growth rates. EMEA revenue increased 6.3 percent as reported, but decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency. France and Spain had growth as reported and adjusted for currency, but were more than offset by declines in Germany, Italy and the UK, adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue decreased 2.2 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency). Within Asia Pacific, declines in China and Australia were partially offset by growth in Japan and India, as reported and adjusted for currency.  
     
  The consolidated gross profit margin of 48.2 percent decreased 1.9 points year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 49.5 percent decreased 1.4 points compared to the prior year. The consolidated gross margin and the operating (non-GAAP) gross margin both improved sequentially compared to the respective third-quarter 2017 gross margins.  
     
  Total expense and other (income) increased 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year. The year-to-year increase was primarily driven by the effects of currency (4 points) and lower intellectual property income (3 points). The expense dynamics reflect continued efficiency in the underlying spending, offset by continued investment to build and reinvent new solutions and platforms. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 6.2 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $4.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017 decreased 10.4 percent year to year and the pre-tax margin was 19.8 percent, a decrease of 3.1 points. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2017 was 123.6 percent, which included a one-time charge of $5.5 billion from the enactment of U.S. tax reform. Losses from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2017 were $1.1 billion compared to income from continuing operations of $4.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $5.1 billion decreased 5.2 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 2.1 points to 22.7 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $4.8 billion increased 0.7 percent and the operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 21.3 percent decreased 0.6 points. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2017 was 6.1 percent versus 11.5 percent in the prior year.  
     
  Diluted earnings/(loss) per share from continuing operations was $(1.14) in the fourth quarter of 2017, which included the charge associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform, compared to $4.73 in the prior year. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the company repurchased 4.4 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.7 billion and had $3.8 billion remaining in the share repurchase authorization at December 31, 2017. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $5.18 increased 3.4 percent versus the fourth quarter of 2016.  
     
 51   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Results of Continuing Operations   
     
   Segment Details   
     
  The following is an analysis of the fourth quarter of 2017 versus the fourth quarter of 2016 reportable segment external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   
     
  Cognitive Solutions revenue of $5,432 million grew 2.5 percent as reported and was flat adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year. These results reflect growth as reported and adjusted for currency in Transaction Processing Software. Within Solutions Software, there was strong performance in the areas the company is shifting to, including Watson offerings and SaaS.  
     
  Solutions Software revenue of $3,791 million grew 1.2 percent as reported (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Within Solutions Software, the annuity content, which represents 80 percent of this unit s revenue on an annual basis, grew 5.4 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) year to year compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. There was continued double-digit growth in SaaS offerings as the company continues to invest to build scale in its as-a-Service businesses. Security contributed to year-to-year growth in the fourth quarter. There was also continued focus on industry verticals and strong performance in areas such as Watson Health and Watson IoT offerings. However, there was weakness in certain more traditional analytics offerings that drove a decline in revenue compared to the prior year. With a larger mix of transactional content in the fourth quarter, this impacted overall revenue performance for Solutions Software. Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,641 million grew 5.8 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 as clients continue to invest and grow their high-value, mission-critical workloads on the IBM Z platform. This growth reflects clients  ongoing long-term commitment and the value the company s platform provides to them.  
     
  Cognitive Solutions total fourth-quarter strategic imperatives revenue of $3.5 billion was flat year to year as reported and decreased 3 percent adjusted for currency. Cloud revenue of $0.7 billion grew 8 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency, with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $2.1 billion.  
     
  Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 3.5 points to 79.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year. In the fourth quarter, pre-tax income of $2,279 million decreased 1.5 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin decline of 1.1 points to 37.5 percent driven by ongoing investments in strategic areas and a mix of businesses into lower margin offerings. Although SaaS margins continued to expand, the company is not yet at scale for these offerings. There was also lower IP income and an increase in royalty costs associated with IP licensing agreements in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year contributing to the pre-tax margin decline.  
     
 52   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Global Business Services   
     
  Global Business Services revenue of $4,152 million increased 0.7 percent as reported (decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency) in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year with growth in Consulting partially offset by declines in Application Management and GPS as reported and at constant currency. In the fourth quarter of 2017, there was growth in GBS signings as reported and adjusted for currency, marking the fourth consecutive quarter of signings growth for the segment.  
     
  Consulting revenue of $1,868 million increased 3.0 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) led by the company s digital strategy and iX platform. This was the second consecutive quarter of growth in Consulting as reported and adjusted for currency. The Consulting backlog has grown year to year in the third and fourth quarters of 2017. GPS revenue of $318 million decreased 6.5 percent as reported (8 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Application Management revenue of $1,967 million decreased 0.1 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) driven by declines in traditional ERP managed services and the successful completion in prior periods of some large contracts. There is continued focus on offerings that help clients modernize their critical application suites by implementing cloud-centric architectures and microservices.  
     
  GBS strategic imperatives revenue of $2.6 billion grew 9 percent as reported (7 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $1.1 billion grew 19 percent as reported (17 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.3 billion.  
     
  GBS fourth-quarter gross profit margin decreased 2.1 points to 24.8 percent year to year. Pre-tax income of $337 million decreased 35.5 percent year to year. The pre-tax margin declined 4.4 points to 7.9 percent. This decline in margins reflects fourth-quarter impacts from currency, continuing investment in skills to transform the GBS business, and continued price and profit pressure in some more traditional areas in Application Management.  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   
     
  Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue of $9,198 million decreased 1.2 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year. Although there was an overall year-to-year revenue decline, there was continued double-digit growth as reported and adjusted for currency in strategic imperatives revenue within the segment.  
     
  Infrastructure Services revenue of $5,995 million declined 1.5 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. This decline reflects the continued impact associated with contract conclusions at the end of 2016 and the shift away from certain lower value work within the business. Clients continue to look to cloud offerings to drive efficiency and agility in their infrastructure and create new business models. Technical Support Services revenue of $1,840 million increased 0.7 percent as reported (decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Integration Software revenue of $1,364 million decreased 2.3 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. There was strong double-digit revenue growth as reported and adjusted for currency in SaaS offerings across the portfolio with continued momentum in hybrid integration tools that are important to enterprise cloud deployments. This was offset by declines in on-premise offerings as more of this portfolio shifts to cloud.  
     
  Technology Services   Cloud Platforms strategic imperatives revenue of $2.9 billion grew 15 percent year to year as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency). Cloud revenue of $2.0 billion grew 13 percent as reported (10 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $6.9 billion.  
     
  Technology Services   Cloud Platforms gross profit margin decreased 2.0 points year to year in the fourth quarter to 40.9 percent driven primarily by some of the large contract conclusions and delays in productivity improvements. Pre-tax income of $1,456 million decreased 22.7 percent. The pretax margin declined 4.2 points year to year to 15.6 percent, but improved sequentially compared to the third quarter of 2017. While there has been improvement in spending related to prior-year workforce reduction transformation actions, the company continues to invest to scale its cloud platforms, deliver productivity through automation and infuse AI into its offerings.  
     
   Systems   
     
  Systems revenue of $3,332 million grew 31.7 percent year to year as reported (28 percent adjusted for currency) in the fourth quarter of 2017. Systems Hardware revenue of $2,865 million grew 38.2 percent as reported (35 percent adjusted for currency) with strong z14 revenue performance in its first full quarter, growth in Power Systems (as reported and adjusted for currency), and the fourth consecutive quarter of growth in Storage Systems, as reported and adjusted for currency. Operating Systems Software revenue of $467 million grew 2.3 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.  
     
  Within Systems Hardware, fourth-quarter IBM Z revenue grew 74.9 percent as reported (71 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting the strong client demand for this platform. The z14 adoption was broad based across many countries and industries. In the fourth quarter, there were 14 new clients across 10 countries, with strong revenue performance in North America where clients continue to leverage traditional IT infrastructure together with cloud. The company continues to address emerging workloads across the IBM Z platform, such as blockchain, machine learning, dev ops and instant payments. Overall, the mainframe continues to deliver a high-value, secure and scalable platform that is critical in managing clients  complex environments.  
     
 53   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Power Systems revenue grew 18.0 percent as reported (15 percent adjusted for currency) year to year driven by double-digit growth in the low-end and high-end portfolios, with cloud-enabled offerings serving new markets. The company continues to shift to the growing Linux market and in the fourth quarter released the next-generation Power System, with the new POWER9 processor. These POWER9 systems bring unprecedented speed to AI workloads and enable clients to compete and win in the data-intensive AI era.  
     
  Storage Systems revenue increased by 10.9 percent as reported (8 percent adjusted for currency) year to year with double-digit growth (as reported and adjusted for currency) in high-end hardware products primarily from the demand for flash as well as the capacity increase linked to mainframe demand. There was also continued growth as reported and adjusted for currency in all-flash array offerings in this high-growth market.  
     
  Systems strategic imperatives revenue of $2.1 billion grew 91 percent year to year as reported (86 percent adjusted for currency). Cloud revenue of $1.7 billion grew 90 percent as reported (86 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  The Systems gross profit margin decreased 1.2 points to 55.7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year, but improved sequentially compared to the third quarter of 2017 consistent with product cycle dynamics. The overall decrease year-to-year was driven by margin declines across all product lines, partially offset by product mix primarily toward the higher-margin IBM Z. In the fourth quarter of 2017, pre-tax income of $908 million grew 56.8 percent and pre-tax margin increased 4.3 points year to year to 25.9 percent driven by the strong fourth quarter performance in Systems Hardware. The company continues to deliver innovation it its systems and remains focused on continually reinventing this portfolio.  
     
   Global Financing   
     
  Global Financing revenue of $450 million increased 0.8 percent year to year. Global Financing fourth quarter pre-tax income decreased 1.2 percent to $443 million and the pre-tax margin of 44.4 percent decreased 4.9 points year to year. The decrease in pre-tax income was driven by a decrease in gross profit and an increase in financing receivable provisions, partially offset by a decrease in SG A expense.  
     
   Geographic Revenue   
     
  Total geographic revenue of $22,450 million increased 3.6 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $10,752 million increased 4.6 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. This represented sequential improvement compared to the year-to-year growth rate in the third quarter of 2017 of 6.6 points as reported (6 points adjusted for currency). EMEA fourth quarter revenue of $7,159 million increased 6.3 percent as reported, but decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,540 million declined 2.2 percent and 2 percent adjusted for currency.  
     
  Within Americas, revenue in the U.S. increased 2.9 percent compared to the prior year. Canada increased 15.7 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. Latin America increased 6.8 percent as reported and 6 percent adjusted for currency. Within Latin America, Brazil increased 13.1 percent as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency.  
     
  In the fourth quarter, EMEA revenue performance by country varied. The UK increased 2.4 percent as reported, but decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency. Germany increased 0.5 percent as reported, but decreased 8 percent adjusted for currency. France increased 20.8 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. Spain was up 18.9 percent as reported and 8 percent adjusted for currency and Italy was essentially flat as reported, but down 9 percent adjusted for currency. Russia was up 12.3 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  Within Asia Pacific, China decreased 16.2 percent as reported and 18 percent adjusted for currency primarily due to strong sales in the banking industry in the prior year. Japan increased 1.0 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency and India increased 7.7 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency.  
     
   Total Expense and Other (Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  

Total expense and other (income) increased 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter with an expense-to-revenue ratio of 28.4 percent compared to 27.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 6.2 percent year to year. The year-to-year increase in total expense and other (income) was primarily the result of the effects of currency (4 points) and lower intellectual property income (3 points). The expense dynamics reflected continued efficiency in the underlying spending offset by continued investment to build and reinvent new solutions and platforms.  
     
 54   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cash Flow   
     
  The company generated $5.7 billion in cash flow from operating activities in the fourth quarter of 2017, an increase of $1.8 billion compared to the fourth quarter of 2016, primarily due to improved working capital. Net cash used in investing activities of $3.8 billion was $0.1 billion higher than the prior year, primarily driven by an increase in cash from net purchases of marketable securities and other investments ($0.3 billion). Net cash used in financing activities of $0.9 billion decreased $0.4 billion compared to the prior year, primarily driven by higher net debt issuances ($0.3 billion) and lower common stock repurchases ($0.2 billion).  
     
   GAAP Reconciliation   
     
  The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27 for the company s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
  (1)      Operating (non-GAAP) earnings excludes a charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform due to its unique non-recurring nature. 
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
 55   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW   
     
  This section provides a summary of the company s financial performance in 2016 as compared to 2015. For additional information, see the company s 2016 Annual Report.  
     
  ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*          (1.6) percent adjusted for currency. 
  **At December 31  
     
  The following table provides the company s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for 2016 and 2015.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*  See page 65 for a more detailed reconciliation of net income to operating earnings.  
     
 56   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Snapshot   
     
  In 2016, the company delivered $79.9 billion in revenue, $11.9 billion in income from continuing operations and $13.0 billion in operating (non-GAAP) earnings, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $12.39 as reported and $13.59 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. On a consolidated basis, net income in 2016 was $11.9 billion, with diluted earnings per share of $12.38. The company generated $17.0 billion in cash from operations and $11.6 billion in free cash flow in 2016 and shareholder returns of $8.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.  
     
  In 2016, the company:  
     
                   Delivered strong results in the strategic imperatives; 
     
                   Made progress in building new businesses and creating new markets; 
     
                   Delivered innovation in the more traditional businesses and monetized core technologies; and 
     
                   Continued to return capital to shareholders. 
     
  Total consolidated revenue in 2016 decreased 2.2 percent as reported and 1.6 percent year to year adjusted for currency. Annuity revenue increased as reported and adjusted for currency while transactional revenue declined year to year. In addition, acquisitions completed in the prior 12-month period contributed to revenue growth.  
     
  In 2016, the company had continued strong revenue growth in cloud, analytics, mobile and security, which together grew 13 percent year to year as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency. The strategic imperatives generated $32.8 billion in revenue, which represented 41 percent of the company s revenue, an increase of 6 points from 2015. Total Cloud revenue of $13.7 billion increased 35 percent both as reported and adjusted for currency, with cloud as-a-Service revenue up 55 percent as reported and 57 percent adjusted for currency. The company exited 2016 with an annual run rate for cloud as-a-Service revenue of $8.6 billion, up from $5.3 billion at the end of 2015. Analytics revenue of $19.5 billion increased 9 percent as reported and adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 34 percent year to year as reported (35 percent adjusted for currency) and Security revenue increased 13 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue increased 1.9 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency with growth in Solutions Software, led by an increase in Analytics and Security revenue; partially offset by a decline in Transaction Processing Software. GBS revenue decreased 2.7 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency primarily driven by a decline in Consulting revenue. Revenue performance continued to be impacted by the company s shift away from traditional businesses, such as ERP implementations. GBS strategic imperatives revenue had double-digit growth year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue increased 0.6 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency led by growth in Infrastructure Services as the company assisted clients in modernizing and transforming their infrastructures. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms strategic imperatives revenue was up 39 percent (40 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Systems revenue decreased 19.2 percent (19 percent adjusted for currency) with IBM Z down 27.1 percent (27 percent adjusted for currency) and Power Systems down 27.1 percent (27 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  The consolidated gross profit margin of 47.9 percent decreased 1.9 points year to year and reflected the impact of the company s investments, including acquisitions, and mix to as-a-Service. The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 48.9 percent decreased 1.9 points compared to 2015 driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Total expense and other (income) increased 4.9 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 5.6 percent compared to 2015. The year-to-year increase in total expense was driven primarily by the impact of acquisitions completed in the prior 12 months (5 points) and the impact from currency (2 points). Total expense and other (income) in 2016 also included charges for actions taken to accelerate the transformation of the company s workforce and shift its skill base, as well as increased investments in the strategic areas of cognitive, security and cloud. This included a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges ($451 million) year to year and real estate capacity charges ($291 million) related to the workforce transformation. Partially offsetting these increases was a higher level of IP income ($950 million) year to year driven primarily by the company s software licensing arrangements.  
     
  Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $12.3 billion decreased 22.7 percent year to year and the pre-tax margin was 15.4 percent, a decrease of 4.1 points versus 2015. The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2016 was 3.6 percent, a decrease of 12.5 points versus 2015. The tax rate in 2016 was primarily the result of a refund ($1.0 billion) of previously paid non-U.S. taxes plus interest in the first quarter of 2016. Income from continuing operations of $11.9 billion decreased 11.1 percent and the net income margin was 14.9 percent, a decrease of 1.5 points versus 2015. Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax, were $9 million in 2016 compared to $174 million in 2015. Net income of $11.9 billion decreased 10.0 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $13.9 billion decreased 21.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 4.2 points to 17.4 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $13.0 billion decreased 11.1 percent and the operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.3 percent decreased 1.6 points. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2016 was 6.5 percent versus 17.2 percent in 2015.  
     
 57   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $12.39 in 2016 decreased 8.9 percent year to year. In 2016, the company repurchased 23.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $3.5 billion. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $13.59 decreased 8.9 percent versus 2015. Diluted earnings/(loss) per share from discontinued operations was $(0.01) in 2016 compared to $(0.18) in 2015.  
     
  At December 31, 2016, the company continued to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2016 were $8.5 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2015. Key drivers in the balance sheet and total cash flows were:  
     
  Total assets increased $7.0 billion ($7.7 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2015 driven by:  
     
                   Increases in goodwill ($4.2 billion), retirement plan assets ($1.3 billion), net intangible assets ($1.2 billion), deferred taxes ($0.4 billion) and cash and marketable securities ($0.3 billion). 
     
  Total liabilities increased $3.0 billion ($3.9 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2015 driven by:  
     
                   Increases in total debt ($2.3 billion), retirement-related liabilities ($0.6 billion), and taxes ($0.4 billion). 
     
  Total equity of $18.4 billion increased $4.0 billion from December 31, 2015 as a result of:  
     
                   Increases from net income ($11.9 billion) and stock-based compensation ($0.5 billion); partially offset by 
     
                   Decreases from dividends ($5.3 billion) and share repurchases ($3.5 billion). 
     
  The company generated $17.0 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, essentially flat compared to 2015, driven primarily by operational performance; offset by lower income tax payments. Net cash used in investing activities of $11.0 billion was $2.8 billion higher than 2015, primarily driven by an increase in cash used related to acquisitions ($2.3 billion). Net cash used in financing activities of $5.8 billion decreased $3.4 billion compared to the prior year, driven primarily by higher net debt issuances ($2.7 billion) and a decline in cash used for common share repurchases ($1.1 billion).  
     
   Results of Continuing Operations   
     
   Segment Details   
     
  The following is an analysis of the 2016 versus 2015 reportable segment results. The table below presents each reportable segment s external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

58   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The growth in Solutions Software revenue, which addresses many of the company s strategic areas, was led by analytics and security offerings. Analytics continued to grow in key areas including Watson offerings such as Watson Health. Security also contributed to year-to-year growth, as the company continued to invest to build its security platform. There was strong SaaS performance during the year with double-digit growth in revenue as reported and adjusted for currency. In 2016, five acquisitions, including The Weather Company and Truven, added substantial new capabilities to the Solutions Software portfolio. Transaction Processing Software revenue declined as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. The majority of the Transaction Processing Software is on-premise and annuity in nature which is not a growing part of the software opportunity.  
     
  Within Cognitive Solutions, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $11.7 billion grew 7 percent as reported (8 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $2.1 billion grew 53 percent as reported (54 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.8 billion.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Profit performance in Cognitive Solutions in 2016 reflected impacts of the company s continued investment into strategic areas, including acquisition content, and the mix toward the SaaS business which was not yet at scale, partially offset by the impact of IP partnership agreements entered into during the year.  
     
   Global Business Services   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Global Business Services revenue decreased in 2016 compared to the prior year with declines across all services lines. The company continued to aggressively shift the GBS business in 2016 to the strategic imperatives which made up more than half of GBS revenue in 2016. Within GBS, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $8.9 billion grew 16 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $3.0 billion grew 68 percent as reported (66 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.1 billion. This growth was more than offset by declines in the more traditional areas that the company is shifting away from, such as large ERP implementations.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

59   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Profit performance for 2016 reflected the company s investments, additional spending in certain accounts to deliver on client commitments, and price and profit pressure in more traditional engagements. The company continued to invest and shift resources to higher-value services around digital and cognitive. The company invested in enablement, hiring top talent and bringing in new skills through acquisitions, and focused on integrating and scaling these new skills.  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   
     
  ($ in millions)  

In Technology Services   Cloud Platforms the business has been shifting from systems integration to services integration, which provided momentum in its new offerings. Infrastructure Services revenue grew as reported and adjusted for currency, partially offset by declines in Technical Support Services and Integration Software. Within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $8.7 billion grew 39 percent as reported (40 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $5.9 billion grew 49 percent as reported (50 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $5.8 billion.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

60   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms gross profit margin year-to-year decline was partially due to mix within the segment and margin declines in Technical Support Services and Integration Software, partially offset by an improved margin in Infrastructure Services. The margin improvement in Infrastructure Services reflected the benefits from delivery transformation and ongoing productivity actions related to automation, process optimization and leveraging the company s scale, technology and talent. The company invested in cognitive capabilities to further improve its delivery model and drive efficiencies. The Technical Support Services margin decline reflected the mix to multi-vendor support offerings. The Integration Software margin declined as the portfolio continued to shift to an as-a-Service model. The pre-tax margin reflected the dynamics impacting gross profit and the continued investments to build out the cloud platform, partially offset by the impact of IP partnership agreements entered into during the year.  
     
   Systems   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The year-to-year decline in Systems revenue in 2016 reflected market shifts and product cycle dynamics. Within Systems Hardware, the IBM Z revenue decline reflected product cycle dynamics. Throughout 2016, the company continued to optimize IBM Z to drive new workloads such as blockchain and instant payments. The year-to-year decline in Power Systems revenue reflected the underlying dynamics of a declining market for UNIX, where IBM continued to be the market leader, partially offset by growth in the expanding Linux market. The decline in Storage Systems revenue year to year reflected the weakness in the traditional disk storage market. Within Systems, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $3.4 billion decreased 15 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $2.7 billion decreased 11 percent as reported and adjusted for currency as a result of a strong 2015 with the mainframe cycle.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The Systems gross profit margin decline year to year was driven by declines in Power and Storage partially offset by expansion in IBM Z margins. The pre-tax income performance was consistent with the product cycle and portfolio transition dynamics impacting revenue and profit.  
     
 61   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Global Financing   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The decline in Global Financing total revenue was due to declines in both external revenue and internal revenue. External revenue decreased year to year due to a decrease in financing revenue (down 11.2 percent), partially offset by an increase in used equipment sales (up 1.6 percent). The decrease in external financing revenue was due to lower asset yields, a decrease in average asset balance and a decline in remarketing lease revenue. Internal revenue decreased due to lower used equipment sales (down 35.5 percent) and financing revenue (down 5.2 percent). The decrease in internal financing revenue was primarily due to lower asset yields, partially offset by an increase in average asset balance. The decrease in Global Financing pre-tax income was driven by a decrease in gross profit and an increase in SG A expense, partially offset by a decrease in financing receivables provisions.  
     
   Geographic Revenue   
     
  In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. The following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance excludes OEM revenue.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Americas revenue decreased year to year as reported and adjusted for currency with declines in North America and Latin America as reported and adjusted for currency. Within North America, the U.S. decreased 0.9 percent and Canada decreased 6.2 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). In Latin America, Brazil decreased 10.5 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) and Mexico decreased 14.5 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  EMEA revenue decreased as reported and adjusted for currency. The UK decreased 12.8 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency). Germany decreased 5.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency). Revenue declined in France 3.4 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). Italy increased 4.0 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. The Middle East and Africa region grew 0.6 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency), while there was a decline in the Central and Eastern European region as reported and adjusted for currency including a year-to-year decline in Russia of 27.1 percent.  
     
  Asia Pacific revenue increased as reported, but declined adjusted for currency. Japan grew 10.5 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. India grew 5.2 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. China decreased 2.4 percent as reported, but was flat on an adjusted for currency basis. Australia decreased 9.7 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
   Total Expense and Other (Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

62   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Selling, General and Administrative   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total SG A expense increased 3.1 percent in 2016 versus 2015, driven primarily by the following factors:  
     
                   The impact of acquisitions completed in the prior 12-month period (4 points); and 
     
                   Higher workforce rebalancing charges (2 points); partially offset by 
     
                   The effects of currency (1 point); and 
     
                   A year-to-year decrease in charges for pension obligations related to litigation in Spain (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) expense increased 3.8 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors excluding the year-to-year decrease in charges for pension obligations related to litigation which is not reflected in operating (non-GAAP) expense.  
     
  Bad debt expense decreased $144 million in 2016 compared to 2015. The receivables provision coverage was 2.0 percent at December 31, 2016, a decrease of 60 basis points from December 31, 2015 due to write-offs of previously reserved receivables in 2016.  
     
   Research, Development and Engineering   
     
  ($ in millions)  

RD E expense was 7.2 percent of revenue in 2016 and 6.4 percent of revenue in 2015.  
     
  RD E expense increased 9.6 percent in 2016 versus 2015 primarily driven by:  
     
                   The impact of acquisitions completed in the prior 12-month period (7 points); and 
     
                   Increased investment (4 points); partially offset by 
     
                   The effects of currency (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) RD E expense increased 10.1 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
   Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income   
     
  ($ in millions)  

63   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Licensing of intellectual property including royalty-based fees increased year to year, primarily due to licensing of certain intellectual property in 2016 within the company s Integration Software and Cognitive Solutions software portfolio, which included four transactions each with period income greater than $100 million. The company licenses IP to partners who allocate their skills to extend the value of assets that are high value, but may be in mature markets. There were no significant individual IP transactions in 2015. The timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development.  
     
   Other (Income) and Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total consolidated other (income) and expense was expense of $145 million in 2016 compared to income of $724 million in 2015. The decrease in income of $869 million year over year was primarily driven by:  
     
                   Lower net exchange gains ($593 million); and 
     
                   Real estate capacity charges related to the first-quarter 2016 workforce transformation ($291 million). 
     
   Interest Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The increase in interest expense compared to 2015 was primarily driven by higher average debt levels and higher average interest rates. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) in 2016 was $1,206 million, an increase of $197 million year to year.  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2016 was 3.6 percent, a decrease of 12.5 points versus the prior year. The benefit resulting from the favorable resolution of the Japan tax matter drove a 9.5 point reduction in the rate in 2016. Without that discrete item, the continuing operations effective tax rate for 2016 would have been 13.1 percent, with the remaining change in the rate year to year driven primarily by the following factors:  
     
                   A benefit due to the year-to-year decrease in tax charges related to intercompany payments made by foreign subsidiaries and the intercompany licensing of certain IP of 5.7 points; and 
     
                   A reduced benefit year to year related to audit settlements of 2.3 points. 
     
  The continuing operations operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate was 6.5 percent, a decrease of 10.7 points versus 2015 principally driven by the same factors described above. Without the Japan benefits, the continuing operations (non-GAAP) effective tax rate would have been 14.9 percent.  
     
   Financial Position   
     
  Cash and marketable securities at year end were $8,527 million. During the year, the company continued to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.  
     
  Total debt of $42,169 million increased $2,279 million from December 31, 2015. The commercial paper balance at December 31, 2016, was $899 million, an increase of $299 million from the prior-year level. Within total debt, $27,859 million was in support of the Global Financing business which was leveraged at a 7.3 to 1 ratio. The company continued to have substantial flexibility in the debt markets. During 2016, the company completed bond issuances totaling $7,873 million, with terms ranging from 1.5 to 30 years, and interest rates ranging from 0.50 to 4.70 percent depending on maturity. The company generated strong cash flow from operations and continued to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its $10.25 billion global credit facility.  
     
 64   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Consistent with accounting standards, the company remeasured the funded status of its retirement and postretirement plans at December 31. At December 31, 2016, the overall net underfunded position was $14,840 million, a decrease of $674 million from December 31, 2015 driven by asset returns partially offset by a decrease in discount rates. At December 31, 2016, the company s qualified defined benefit plans were well funded. In 2016, the return on the U.S. Personal Pension Plan assets was 6.2 percent and the plan was 102 percent funded at December 31. Overall, global asset returns were 8.5 percent and the qualified defined benefit plans worldwide were 98 percent funded at December 31, 2016.  
     
  During 2016, the company generated $17,084 million in cash from operations, a decrease of $171 million compared to 2015. In addition, the company generated $11,700 million in free cash flow, a decrease of $1,623 million versus the prior year. The company returned $8,758 million to shareholders in 2016, with $5,256 million in dividends and $3,502 million in gross share repurchases. In 2016, the company repurchased 23.3 million shares.  
     
   GAAP Reconciliation   
     
  The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Please refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27 for the company s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
 65   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   OTHER INFORMATION   
     
   Looking Forward   
     
  The company s strategies, investments and actions are all made with an objective of optimizing long-term performance. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy.  
     
  As part of its strategic model, the company expects to continue to allocate capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Over the long term, in consideration of the opportunities it will continue to develop, the company expects to have the ability to generate low single-digit revenue growth, and with a higher-value business mix, high single-digit operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share growth, with free cash flow realization of GAAP net income in the 90 to 100 percent range.  
     
  The company s 2017 results reflect the work that has been done to reposition the business through investment, shifting skills and reallocating capital all to enable clients to move to the future. In Cognitive Solutions, performance will be driven by the shift to AI, Watson, security and industry vertical solutions. The company continued to move its offerings to as-a-Service delivery models, and in 2018 will continue to build scale. In the services segments, there is momentum in Consulting driven by digital, and strong revenue growth in cloud, as the company continues to assist clients to build out hybrid environments. The company s expectations from the current services backlog point to an improved revenue trajectory in 2018 versus 2017. The Systems segment had a strong second half of 2017, with the introduction of the z14 with pervasive encryption. The company is ahead of the historical product cycle in the first two quarters since its introduction and in the fourth quarter shipped the most MIPS in history, providing evidence that the market has capacity demand and understands the value in the platform. In addition, the introduction of the new POWER9 processor will bring unprecedented speed to AI workloads and the company has the most competitive storage offerings in some time. As a result, the company enters 2018 with a stronger revenue profile than in 2017.  
     
  For full-year 2018, the company expects revenue growth, at mid-January spot rates, and margin stabilization, driven by continued scale in the cloud business and yield from services  productivity improvements. The company expects year-to-year revenue growth in the first quarter of 2018 versus 2017, at both mid-January spot rates and constant currency, with growth rates relatively consistent with the fourth quarter of 2017.  
     
  Consistent with the long-term model, the company also expects, over the course of 2018, to continue to acquire key capabilities, remix skills, invest in areas of growth and return value to shareholders. The company will continue to invest to drive growth in the strategic areas and expects a year-to-year headwind in expense in 2018 due to currency hedges. A high level of investment is important as the company continues to build its capabilities in AI, cloud, security and blockchain, among others. Additionally, the company will continue to look for more productivity in spending, especially in the services businesses, along with a remix of skills to the new opportunities. This is all taken into account in the full-year view.  
     
  Overall, the company expects GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for 2018 to be at least $11.70. Excluding acquisition-related charges of $0.78 per share and non-operating retirement-related items of $1.32 per share, operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share is expected to be at least $13.80. For the first quarter of 2018, the company expects operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share to be approximately 17 percent to 18 percent of the full-year expectation. In each of the first quarters of 2017 and 2016, the company had a discrete tax benefit. The company expects a potential benefit again in the first quarter of 2018, and as in the past, will likely take actions that will offset some portion of the benefit. Two accounting changes, revenue recognition and pension cost, that were adopted beginning January 1, 2018, are expected to essentially offset each other within the full-year 2018 operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share expectation. These items are reflected in the first-quarter skew expectations.  
     
  Free cash flow realization, which is defined as free cash flow to income from continuing operations (GAAP), is expected to be over 100%. The company expects free cash flow to be approximately $12 billion in 2018. Free cash flow expectations include a year-to-year headwind from strong receivables collections in 2017, an approximate $600 million year-to-year headwind from cash tax payments and an expected growth in capital expenditures.  
     
  For 2018, the company expects the GAAP tax rate to be approximately 2 points lower than the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate expectation. The company expects its operating (non-GAAP) tax rate for 2018 to be 16 percent, plus or minus 2 points (excluding discrete items), which is a 4-point headwind year to year. The tax rates reflect the implementation of U.S. tax reform, which includes a lower U.S. corporate tax rate, offset by the broader tax base and reduced foreign tax credit utilization. The rate will change year to year based on nonrecurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.  
     
 66   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company expects 2018 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $3.2 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2017. Consistent with the newly adopted FASB guidance for the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs, within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, approximately flat versus 2017. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.7 billion, an increase of approximately $300 million compared to 2017, driven by lower income from expected return on assets and a year-to-year impact due to the pension obligation adjustment resulting from UK litigation in 2017. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018, approximately flat compared to 2017.  
     
  For a discussion of new accounting standards that the company will adopt in future periods, please see note B,  Accounting Changes,  beginning on page 94. For discussion of the company s presentation of non-operating retirement-related cost, refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27.  
     
   Liquidity and Capital Resources   
     
  The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $16.7 billion and $17.8 billion per year over the past five years. The company provides for additional liquidity through several sources: maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources, committed global credit facilities and other committed and uncommitted lines of credit worldwide. In 2017, the company and IBM Credit entered into a $2.5 billion 364-day Credit Agreement and a $2.5 billion three-year Credit Agreement. These new agreements permit borrowings up to an aggregate of $5 billion on a revolving basis. The following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2013 through 2017.  
     
   Cash Flow and Liquidity Trends   
     
  ($ in billions)  

*          Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on share-based compensation. 
     
  The major rating agencies  ratings on the company s debt securities at December 31, 2017 appear in the following table. On May 3, 2017, Moody s Investors Service lowered its ratings on the company s senior long-term debt from Aa3 to A1, while reaffirming its rating on commercial paper. On May 5, 2017, Standard and Poor s lowered its ratings on the company s senior long-term debt to A+ from AA- and commercial paper to A-1 from A-1+. The Fitch ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2016. IBM remains a strong investment grade company with significant flexibility to execute its strategy and capital allocation plans. The company s indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the company s consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the company s ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million.  
     
  The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certification to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable.  
     
  The company does not have  ratings trigger  provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At December 31, 2017, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $415 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity.  

Moody s        

Standard        

Investors        

Fitch        

IBM and IBM Credit Ratings        

and Poor s        

Service        

Ratings        

Senior long-term   debt       

A+       

A1       

A+       

Commercial paper       

A-1       

Prime-1       

F1       

The company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with applicable accounting standards for cash flow presentation on page 81 and highlights causes and events underlying sources and uses of cash in that format on page 48. For the purpose of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different format.  
     
 67   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result, the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric.  
     
  From the perspective of how management views cash flow, in 2017, after investing $3.3 billion in capital investments primarily in cloud and in support of the services business, the company generated free cash flow of $13.0 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion compared to 2016. The increase was primarily driven by lower capital expenditures and strong working capital performance due to mix of business and collections.  
     
  In 2017, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $5.5 billion in dividends and $4.3 billion in gross common stock repurchases (27.2 million shares).  
     
  Over the past five years, the company generated over $65 billion in free cash flow. During that period, the company invested over $13 billion in strategic acquisitions and returned $64 billion to shareholders through dividends and gross share repurchases. The company s performance during this period demonstrates that there is fungibility across the elements of share repurchases, dividends and acquisitions. The amount of prospective returns to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases will vary based upon several factors including each year s operating results, capital expenditure requirements, research and development investments and acquisitions, as well as the factors discussed on page 69.  
     
  The company s Board of Directors considers the dividend payment on a quarterly basis. In the second quarter of 2017, the Board of Directors increased the company s quarterly common stock dividend from $1.40 to $1.50 per share.  
     
  The table below represents the way in which management reviews cash flow as described above.  
     
  ($ in billions)  

*          Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on share-based compensation. 
     
  **116% excluding the one-time charge of $5.5 billion associated with the enactment of U.S. tax reform in 2017.  
     
 68   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note M,  Contingencies and Commitments,  on pages 119 to 121. With respect to pension funding, in 2017, the company contributed $409 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit plans compared to $507 million in 2016. As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations table, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $1.8 billion in the next five years. The 2018 contributions are currently expected to be approximately $400 million. Contributions related to all retirement-related plans is expected to be approximately $2.4 billion in 2018, approximately flat compared to 2017. Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations.  
     
  In 2018, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  
     
  The company s U.S. cash flows continue to be sufficient to fund its current domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. The company s U.S. operations generate substantial cash flows, and, in those circumstances where the company has additional cash requirements in the U.S., the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates, utilizing its committed global credit facility, repatriating certain foreign earnings and utilizing intercompany loans with certain foreign subsidiaries.  
     
   Contractual Obligations   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          As funded status on plans will vary, obligations for mandated minimum pension payments after 2022 could not be reasonably estimated. 
     
  **These amounts represent the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The company estimates that approximately $1,062 million of the liability is expected to be settled within the next 12 months. The settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the income tax liability cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing of the payments will depend on the progress of tax examinations with the various tax authorities; however, it is not expected to be due within the next 12 months.  
     
 69   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Total contractual obligations are reported in the previous table excluding the effects of time value and therefore, may not equal the amounts reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Certain noncurrent liabilities are excluded from the previous table as their future cash outflows are uncertain. This includes deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred income, disability benefits and other sundry items. Certain obligations related to the company s divestitures are included.  
     
  Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the company would incur a penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) the company must make specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the contracted products or services (take-or-pay). If the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract is included in the previous table. If the obligation is cancelable, but the company would incur a penalty if canceled, the dollar amount of the penalty is included as a purchase obligation. Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also included in the table as they represent the portion of each contract that is a firm commitment.  
     
  In the ordinary course of business, the company enters into contracts that specify that the company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product, commodity or service from a supplier or vendor. These contracts are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms. They do not specify fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and, therefore, the company does not consider them to be purchase obligations.  
     
  Interest on floating-rate debt obligations is calculated using the effective interest rate at December 31, 2017, plus the interest rate spread associated with that debt, if any.  
     
   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   
     
  From time to time, the company may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67),  Disclosure in Management s Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations.   
     
  At December 31, 2017, the company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table on page 69 for the company s contractual obligations, and note M,  Contingencies and Commitments,  on page 119, for detailed information about the company s guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements. The company does not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance sheet interests or instruments.  
     
   Critical Accounting Estimates   
     
  The application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported financial condition. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the company s financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of the company s Board of Directors. The company s significant accounting policies are described in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 84 to 93.  
     
  A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management s predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.  
     
   Pension Assumptions   
     
  For the company s defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of the benefit obligation to employees and net periodic pension (income)/cost requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected return on plan assets.  
     
  Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic pension (income)/cost calculation and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). The company decreased the discount rate assumption for the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S.-based defined benefit plan, by 40 basis points to 3.40 percent on December 31, 2017. This change will increase pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2018 by an estimated $120 million. If the discount rate assumption for the PPP had increased by 40 basis points on December 31, 2017, pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2018 would have decreased by an estimated $125 million. Further changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact the company s funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPP s PBO of an estimated $1.2 billion based upon December 31, 2017 data.  
     
 70   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The expected long-term return on plan assets assumption is used in calculating the net periodic pension (income)/cost. Expected returns on plan assets are calculated based on the market-related value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/ cost and also as a component of actuarial (gains)/losses, which are recognized over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards.  
     
  To the extent the outlook for long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption would have an estimated decrease or increase, respectively, of $258 million on the following year s pre-tax net periodic pension (income)/cost (based upon the PPP s plan assets at December 31, 2017 and assuming no contributions are made in 2018).  
     
  The company may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less future company funding into the pension plans than is planned by management. Impacts of these types of changes on the company s pension plans in other countries worldwide would vary depending upon the status of each respective plan.  
     
  In addition to the above, the company evaluates other pension assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age and mortality, and updates these assumptions to reflect experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year can differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors.  
     
  For additional information on the company s pension plans and the development of these assumptions, see note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 135 and 136.  
     
   Revenue Recognition   
     
  Application of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple-deliverable arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered part of one arrangement.  
     
  Revenue recognition is also impacted by the company s ability to estimate sales incentives, expected returns and collectibility. The company considers various factors, including a review of specific transactions, the creditworthiness of the customers, historical experience and market and economic conditions when calculating these provisions and allowances. Evaluations are conducted each quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates. If these estimates were changed by 10 percent in 2017, net income would have been impacted by $40 million (excluding Global Financing receivables).  
     
   Costs to Complete Service Contracts   
     
  The company enters into numerous service contracts through its services businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract, especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its POC-based services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs and product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a component of other accrued expenses and liabilities were $25 million and $13 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  The company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  
     
  During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the company s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions, and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  
     
 71   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. In the event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  
     
  The consolidated provision for income taxes will change period to period based on nonrecurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.  
     
  To the extent that the provision for income taxes increases/ decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/improved by $114 million in 2017.  
     
   Valuation of Assets   
     
  The application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired including separately identifiable intangible assets, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The company s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.  
     
   Valuation of Goodwill   
     
  The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. In 2017, the company assessed the qualitative risk factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  
     
  The company assesses qualitative factors in each of its reporting units that carry goodwill including relevant events and circumstances that affect the fair value of reporting units. Examples include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions; as well as other individual factors such as:  
     
                   A loss of key personnel; 
     
                   A significant adverse shift in the operating environment of the reporting unit such as unanticipated competition; 
     
                   A significant pending litigation; 
     
                   A more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of; and 
     
                   An adverse action or assessment by a regulator. 
     
  The company assesses these qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. This quantitative test is required only if the company concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying amount.  
     
  In the fourth quarter, the company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis. The qualitative assessment illustrated evidence of a potential impairment triggering event as a result of the financial performance of the Systems reporting unit. The quantitative analysis resulted in no impairment as the reporting unit s estimated fair value exceeded the carrying amount by over 100 percent.  
     
   Loss Contingencies   
     
  The company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation, and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the company s results of operations and financial position.  
     
   Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses   
     
  The Global Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio on a regular basis in order to assess collectibility and records adjustments to the allowance for credit losses at least quarterly. A description of the methods used by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 93. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include significant changes in the economy, or a sudden change in the economic health of a significant client that represents a concentration in Global Financing s receivables portfolio.  
     
 72   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  To the extent that actual collectibility differs from management s estimates currently provided for by 10 percent, Global Financing s segment pre-tax income and the company s income from continuing operations before income taxes would be higher or lower by an estimated $34 million depending upon whether the actual collectibility was better or worse, respectively, than the estimates.  
     
   Residual Value   
     
  Residual value represents the estimated fair value of equipment under lease as of the end of the lease. Residual value estimates impact the determination of whether a lease is classified as operating or capital. Global Financing estimates the future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the current market for new and used equipment, and obtaining forward-looking product information such as marketing plans and technological innovations. Residual value estimates are periodically reviewed and  other than temporary  declines in estimated future residual values are recognized upon identification. Anticipated increases in future residual values are not recognized until the equipment is remarketed.  
     
  Factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from the estimates include significant changes in the used-equipment market brought on by unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any resulting changes in the useful lives of used equipment.  
     
  To the extent that actual residual value recovery is lower than management s estimates by 10 percent, Global Financing s segment pre-tax income and the company s income from continuing operations before income taxes for 2017 would have been lower by an estimated $72 million. If the actual residual value recovery is higher than management s estimates, the increase in income will be realized at the end of lease when the equipment is remarketed.  
     
   Currency Rate Fluctuations   
     
  Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the company s financial results and financial position. At December 31, 2017, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into more dollars than at year-end 2016. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions.  
     
  During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the company s financial results.  
     
  The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to  adjusted for currency  or  constant currency  reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management could take to mitigate fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in 2017. Based on the currency rate movements in 2017, total revenue decreased 1.0 percent as reported and 1.3 percent at constant currency versus 2016. On an income from continuing operations before income taxes basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $100 million in 2017, on both an as-reported basis and operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in an increase of approximately $125 million in 2016 on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $150 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace.  
     
  For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars.  
     
  The company continues to monitor the economic conditions and currency exchange mechanisms in Venezuela. The company recorded a pre-tax loss of $43 million in the first quarter of 2016 in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a result of the elimination of the SICAD exchange and devaluation of the new exchange. Total pre-tax loss for 2017 was $10 million compared to $48 million in 2016. The company s operations in Venezuela comprised less than 1 percent of total 2017, 2016 and 2015 revenue, respectively.  
     
 73   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Market Risk   
     
  In the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets.  
     
  The company regularly assesses these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks.  
     
  The company s debt, in support of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the company s operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as described in note D,  Financial Instruments Derivative Financial Instruments,  on pages 102 to 107.  
     
  To meet disclosure requirements, the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company s debt and other financial instruments.  
     
  The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis are comprised of the company s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term and long-term loans, commercial financing and installment payment receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and derivative financial instruments. The company s derivative financial instruments generally include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward contracts.  
     
  To perform the sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk.  
     
  Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include short-term and long-term receivables from sales-type and direct financing leases, forecasted foreign currency cash flows and the company s net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of the financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.  
     
  The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows:  
     
   Interest Rate Risk   
     
  At December 31, 2017, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $201 million as compared with a decrease of $147 million at December 31, 2016. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in an increase in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $232 million as compared to an increase of $142 million at December 31, 2016. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company s financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the company s debt maturities, interest rate profile and amount.  
     
   Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk   
     
  At December 31, 2017, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $120 million as compared with a decrease of $132 million at December 31, 2016. Conversely, a 10 percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $120 million compared with an increase of $132 million at December 31, 2016.  
     
   Financing Risks   
     
  See the  Description of Business  on page 33 for a discussion of the financing risks associated with the Global Financing business and management s actions to mitigate such risks.  
     
 74   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cybersecurity   
     
  While cybersecurity risk can never be completely eliminated, the company s approach draws on the depth and breadth of its global capabilities, both in terms of its offerings to clients and its internal approaches to risk management. The company offers commercial solutions that deliver capabilities in areas such as identity and access management, data security, application security, network security and endpoint security. IBM s solutions include pervasive encryption, security intelligence, analytics, cognitive and artificial intelligence, and forensic tools that can process information on customer IT security events and vulnerabilities and provide detailed information to customers about potential threats and security posture. The company also offers professional solutions for security from assessment and incident response to deployment and resource augmentation. In addition, the company offers managed and outsourced security solutions from multiple security operations centers around the world. Finally, security is embedded in a multitude of IBM offerings through secure engineering processes and by critical functions (encryption, access control, etc.) in servers, storage, software, service, and other solutions.  
     
  From an enterprise perspective, IBM implements a multi-faceted risk-management approach to identify and address cybersecurity risks. The company has established policies and procedures that provide the foundation upon which IBM s infrastructure and data are managed. IBM performs ongoing assessments regarding its technical controls and its methods for identifying emerging risks related to cybersecurity. The company uses a layered approach with overlapping controls to defend against cybersecurity attacks and threats on networks, end-user devices, servers, applications and cloud solutions. The company also has a security monitoring program and a global incident response process to respond to cybersecurity threats and attacks. In addition, the company utilizes a combination of online training, educational tools, videos and other awareness initiatives to foster a culture of security awareness and responsibility among its workforce.  
     
   Employees and Related Workforce   
     
  (In thousands)  

As a globally integrated enterprise, the company operates in more than 175 countries and is continuing to shift its business to the higher value segments of enterprise IT. The company continues to remix its skills and people needs to match the best opportunities in the marketplace.  
     
  The complementary workforce is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary, part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.  
     
 75   

Report of Management   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Management Responsibility for Financial Information   
     
  Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates and judgments as required.  
     
  IBM maintains an effective internal control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. An important element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit program. Our system also contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified.  
     
  To assure the effective administration of internal controls, we carefully select and train our employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide appropriate communication channels and foster an environment conducive to the effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees throughout the world, and reemphasized through internal programs to assure that they are understood and followed.  
     
  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of independent, non-management directors, and is responsible for recommending to the Board the independent registered public accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee meets regularly and privately with the independent registered public accounting firm, with the company s internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting matters.  
     
   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
     
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  
     
  The company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
     
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
     
  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2017.  
     
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBM s Consolidated Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  

/s/ Virginia M.   Rometty       

Virginia   M. Rometty        

Chairman,   President and Chief Executive Officer       

February 27,   2018       

/s/ James J. Kavanaugh       

James J. Kavanaugh        

Senior Vice   President and Chief Financial Officer       

February 27,   2018       

76   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of International Business Machines Corporation:   
     
   Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting   
     
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Financial Position of International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the  consolidated financial statements ). We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  
     
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  (2013) issued by the COSO.  
     
   Basis for Opinions   
     
  The Company s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on page 76. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.  
     
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  
     
  Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  
     
   Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting   
     
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
     
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP       

PricewaterhouseCoopers   LLP        

New York, New   York       

February 27,   2018       

We, or firms we have ultimately acquired, have served as the Company s auditor since 1923. For the period from 1923 to 1958, the Company was audited by firms that a predecessor firm to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ultimately acquired.  
     
 77   

Consolidated Statement of Earnings   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 78   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 79   

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 80   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Reclassified to reflect adoption of the FASB guidance on share-based compensation. 
     
  Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 81   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 82   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on intra-entity transfers of assets in the first quarter of 2017.  
     
  Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 84 through 146 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE A. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   
     
   Basis of Presentation   
     
  The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).  
     
  Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable.  
     
  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( U.S. tax reform ) was enacted in the U.S. This Act introduced many changes, including lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent, changes in incentives, provisions to prevent U.S. base erosion and significant changes in the taxation of international income, including provisions which allow for the repatriation of foreign earnings without U.S. tax.  
     
  The enactment of U.S. tax reform resulted in a provisional charge of $5,475 million to tax expense in the fourth-quarter and year-ended December 31, 2017. The charge was primarily the result of the one-time U.S. transition tax, and any foreign tax costs on undistributed foreign earnings, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances to the new U.S. Federal tax rate. Refer to note N,  Taxes,  on pages 121 to 124 for additional information.  
     
  Noncontrolling interest amounts of $17 million, $16 million and $8 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
   Principles of Consolidation   
     
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are primarily majority owned. Any noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary is reported in Equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest is reported as described above in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs) are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which the company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method and the company s proportionate share of income or loss is recorded in other (income) and expense. The accounting policy for other investments in equity securities is on page 92 within  Marketable Securities.  Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities are primarily accounted for using the cost method. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.  
     
   Use of Estimates   
     
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these estimates. See  Critical Accounting Estimates  on pages 70 to 73 for a discussion of the company s critical accounting estimates.  
     
   Revenue   
     
  The company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company considers revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery does not occur until products have been shipped or services have been provided to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client, and either client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. The sales price is not considered to be fixed or determinable until all contingencies related to the sale have been resolved.  
     
  The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as  resellers ) when the reseller has: economic substance apart from the company, credit risk, risk of loss to the inventory; and, the fee to the company is not contingent upon resale or payment by the end user, the company has no further obligations related to bringing about resale or delivery and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  
     
  The company reduces revenue for estimated client returns, price protection, rebates and other similar allowances. (See Schedule II,  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  included in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K). Revenue is recognized only if these estimates can be reasonably and reliably determined. The company bases its estimates on historical results taking into consideration the type of client, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Payments made under cooperative marketing programs are recognized as an expense only if the company receives from the client an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably and reliably estimated. If the company does not receive an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably estimated, such payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue.  
     
  Revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is the principal for the transaction. Several factors are considered to determine whether the company is an agent or principal, most notably whether the company is the primary obligor to the client, or has inventory risk. Consideration is also given to whether the company adds meaningful value to the vendor s product or service, was involved in the selection of the vendor s product or service, has latitude in establishing the sales price or has credit risk.  
     
 84   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue.  
     
   Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements   
     
  The company s global capabilities as a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company include services, software, hardware, and/or related financing. For example, a client may purchase a server that includes operating system software. In addition, the arrangement may include post-contract support for the software and a contract for post-warranty maintenance service for the hardware. These types of arrangements can also include financing provided by the company. These arrangements consist of multiple deliverables, with the hardware and software delivered in one reporting period, and the software support and hardware maintenance services delivered across multiple reporting periods. In another example, the company may assist the client in building and running an enterprise information technology (IT) environment utilizing a private cloud on a long-term basis and the client periodically purchases hardware and/or software products from the company to upgrade or expand the facility. The services delivered on the cloud are provided on a continuous basis across multiple reporting periods, and the hardware and software products are delivered in one reporting period. To the extent that a deliverable in a multiple-deliverable arrangement is subject to specific accounting guidance that deliverable is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. Examples of such arrangements may include leased hardware which is subject to specific leasing guidance or software which is subject to specific software revenue recognition guidance on whether and/or how to separate multiple-deliverable arrangements into separate units of accounting (separability) and how to allocate the arrangement consideration among those separate units of accounting (allocation). For all other deliverables in multiple-deliverable arrangements, the guidance below is applied for separability and allocation. A multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if the following criteria are met:  
     
                   The delivered item(s) has value to the client on a standalone basis; and 
     
                   If the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the company. 
     
  If these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is a relative selling price for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative selling price. The following revenue policies are then applied to each unit of accounting, as applicable.  
     
  Revenue from the company s cloud, analytics, mobile, security, and cognitive offerings follow the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue depending on the type of offering which can be comprised of services, hardware and/or software.  
     
   Services   
     
  The company s primary services offerings include IT datacenter and business process outsourcing, application management services, consulting and systems integration, technology infrastructure and system maintenance, hosting and the design and development of complex IT systems to a client s specifications (design and build). Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models. These services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years.  
     
  Revenue from IT datacenter and business process outsourcing contracts is recognized in the period the services are provided using either an objective measure of output or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Under the output method, the amount of revenue recognized is based on the services delivered in the period.  
     
  Revenue from application management services, technology infrastructure, and system maintenance and hosting contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the contracts. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue related to extended warranty and product maintenance contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period.  
     
  Revenue from fixed-price design and build contracts is recognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method. Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by the company.  
     
  The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its services contracts accounted for under the POC method in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC method services contracts, losses are recorded as incurred.  
     
  In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. Deferred income of $5,870 million and $5,873 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. Unbilled accounts receivable of $1,756 million and $1,611 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, is included in notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions.  
     
 85   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Hardware   
     
  The company s hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions. These products can also be delivered through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models such as Storage-as-a-Service. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products.  
     
  Revenue from hardware sales and sales-type leases is recognized when risk of loss has transferred to the client and there are no unfulfilled company obligations that affect the client s final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard warranties and remaining obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory are accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from as-a-Service arrangements is recognized as the service is delivered. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease.  
     
   Software   
     
  The company s software offerings include solutions software, which provides the basis for many of the company s strategic areas including analytics, security and social; transaction processing software, which primarily runs mission-critical systems for clients; integration software, which help clients to create, connect and optimize their applications data and infrastructure; and operating systems software, which provides operating systems for IBM Z and Power Systems hardware. Many of these offerings can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models, while others are delivered as on-premise software licenses.  
     
  Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the inception of the license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue from post-contract support, which may include unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period such items are delivered. Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized as the service is delivered. In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the customer (e.g., ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the customer to operate the software) are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license. In arrangements which include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized according to whether the license is perpetual or term. Revenue from term (recurring license charge) license software is recognized over the period that the client is entitled to use the license as usage occurs.  
     
  In multiple-deliverable arrangements that include software that is more than incidental to the products or services as a whole (software multiple-deliverable arrangements), software and software-related elements are accounted for in accordance with software revenue recognition guidance. Software-related elements include software products and services for which a software deliverable is essential to its functionality. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible product s essential functionality are not within the scope of software revenue recognition guidance and are accounted for based on other applicable revenue recognition guidance.  
     
  A software multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met:  
     
                   The functionality of the delivered element(s) is not dependent on the undelivered element(s); 
     
                   There is vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately by the company on a regular basis and not as part of the multiple-deliverable arrangement; and 
     
                   Delivery of the delivered element(s) represents the culmination of the earnings process for that element(s). 
     
  If any one of these criteria is not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair value for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative VSOE of fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there is VSOE of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s). In these cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements.  
     
  The company s multiple-deliverable arrangements may have a stand-alone software deliverable that is subject to the existing software revenue recognition guidance. The revenue for these multiple-deliverable arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the non-software deliverables based on the relative selling prices of all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy: VSOE, third-party evidence (TPE) or best estimate of selling price (BESP). In circumstances where the company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement, including the software deliverable, BESP is used for the purpose of performing this allocation.  
     
   Financing   
     
  Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  
     
   Best Estimate of Selling Price   
     
  In certain instances, the company is not able to establish VSOE for all elements in a multiple-deliverable arrangement. When VSOE cannot be established, the company attempts to establish the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately.  
     
  When the company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the company uses BESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which the company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BESP may be used,  
     
 86   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  for example, if a product is not sold on a stand-alone basis or when the company sells a new product, for which VSOE and TPE does not yet exist, in a multiple-deliverable arrangement prior to selling the new product on a stand-alone basis.  
     
  The company determines BESP by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, overall market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, competitor actions, internal costs, profit objectives and pricing practices. The determination of BESP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the company s management. In addition, the company regularly reviews VSOE and TPE for its products and services, in addition to BESP.  
     
   Services Costs   
     
  Recurring operating costs for services contracts are recognized as incurred. For fixed-price design and build contracts, the costs of external hardware and software accounted for under the POC method are deferred and recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date, as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing or other cloud-based services contracts are deferred and subsequently amortized. These costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the installation of systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with these contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, an impairment loss is recognized.  
     
  Deferred services transition and setup costs were $2,121 million and $2,072 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Amortization of deferred services transition and setup costs was estimated at December 31, 2017 to be $695 million in 2018, $517 million in 2019, $354 million in 2020, $232 million in 2021 and $323 million thereafter.  
     
  Deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing or other cloud-based services arrangements were $163 million and $160 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as an offset of revenue and was estimated at December 31, 2017 to be $65 million in 2018, $51 million in 2019, $29 million in 2020, $13 million in 2021 and $5 million thereafter. In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services.  
     
   Software Costs   
     
  Costs that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed software programs are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense; costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. Capitalized amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in software cost within cost of sales. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software cost within cost of sales as incurred.  
     
  The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal-use software programs, including software coding, installation, testing and certain data conversions. These capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in selling, general and administrative expense.  
     
  Certain eligible, non-recurring costs incurred in the initial phases of Software-as-a-Service contracts are deferred and amortized over the expected period of benefit, consistent with the policy described for Services Costs. Recurring operating costs in these contracts are recognized as incurred.  
     
   Product Warranties   
     
  The company offers warranties for its hardware products that generally range up to three years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs for standard warranty terms are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred.  
     
  Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period. Changes in deferred income for extended warranty contracts, and in the warranty liability for standard warranties, which are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, are presented in the following tables:  
     
   Standard Warranty Liability   
     
  ($ in millions)  

87   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
   Extended Warranty Liability (Deferred Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*Other consists primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments.  
     
   Shipping and Handling   
     
  Costs related to shipping and handling are recognized as incurred and included in cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
   Expense and Other Income   
     
   Selling, General and Administrative   
     
  Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as selling expense and include such items as compensation, advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items as compensation, legal costs, office supplies, non-income taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other operating items such as an allowance for credit losses, workforce rebalancing charges for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing course of business, acquisition costs related to business combinations, amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental remediation costs.  
     
   Advertising and Promotional Expense   
     
  The company expenses advertising and promotional costs as incurred. Cooperative advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and promotional expense in the period in which the related advertising and promotional expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expense, was $1,445 million, $1,327 million and $1,290 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and is recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
   Research, Development and Engineering   
     
  Research, development and engineering (RD E) costs are expensed as incurred. Software costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset.  
     
   Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income   
     
  The company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade secrets and technological know-how. Certain IP transactions to third parties are licensing/royalty-based and others are transaction-based sales/other transfers. Income from licensing arrangements is recognized at the inception of the perpetual license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Licensing arrangements include IP partnerships whereby a business partner licenses source code from the company and becomes responsible for developing, maintaining and enhancing the product. The company retains its customers and go-to-market capability and any royalty cost due to the partner is recognized in cost of sales. The IP partner has the rights to market the product and its derivative works under its own brand and remits royalty to the company on those sales, which are recorded as royalty-based fees. Income from any royalty-based fee arrangements is recognized over time or as the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable royalty, based upon licensee s revenue). The company also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these arrangements is recognized when earned. In addition, the company earns income from certain custom development projects for strategic technology partners and specific clients. The company records the income from these projects if the fee is not refundable, is not dependent upon the success of the project and when all recognition criteria have been met.  
     
   Other (Income) and Expense   
     
  Other (income) and expense includes interest income (other than from Global Financing external transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and losses from certain real estate transactions, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale of businesses, other than reported as discontinued operations, and amounts related to accretion of asset retirement obligations.  
     
   Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including Goodwill   
     
  The company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as a separately identifiable intangible asset. Goodwill recorded in an acquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in cost, and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in SG A expense. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date.  
     
   Impairment   
     
  Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, the asset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested at least annually, in the fourth quarter, for impairment and whenever changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level which is the operating segment, or a business, which is one level below that operating segment (the  component  level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly  
     
 88   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  reviewed by management at the segment level. Components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics.  
     
   Depreciation and Amortization   
     
  Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; production, engineering, office and other equipment, 2 to 20 years; and information technology equipment, 1.5 to 5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years.  
     
  Capitalized software costs incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been established are amortized over periods ranging up to 3 years. Capitalized costs for internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to 3 years. Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between 1 and 7 years.  
     
   Environmental   
     
  The cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities. The company s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable.  
     
   Asset Retirement Obligations   
     
  Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability. Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of time in interest expense and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original expected cash flows to the related assets.  
     
   Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans   
     
  The funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of assets held in an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess.  
     
  The current portion of the retirement and nonpension post-retirement benefit obligations represents the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation is recorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  Net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/ (credits) and (gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of OCI and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI). Service cost represents the actuarial present value of participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the time value of money cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events, such as changes in the employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding change in OCI. The result of these events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. Net periodic cost/(income) is recorded in Cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective functions. Refer to note B,  Accounting Changes , on pages 94 to 96, for additional information on the presentation change relating to pension costs beginning on January 1, 2018.  
     
  (Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are not recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise, but are recognized as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting guidance. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of benefit changes attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments.  
     
  The measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is based on estimates and assumptions approved by the company s management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates.  
     
 89   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
   Defined Contribution Plans   
     
  The company s contribution for defined contribution plans is recorded when the employee renders service to the company. The charge is recorded in Cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective functions.  
     
   Stock-Based Compensation   
     
  Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company grants its employees Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) and periodically grants stock options. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation cost is recorded in Cost, SG A, and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective functions.  
     
  The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the company s income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction. The differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded as a benefit or expense to the provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  Income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  
     
  The company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the company s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. Benefits from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The current portion of tax liabilities is included in taxes and the noncurrent portion of tax liabilities is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments are included in income tax expense.  
     
   Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts   
     
  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency are translated to United States (U.S.) dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments are recorded in OCI. Income and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.  
     
  Inventories, property, plant and equipment net and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars are translated at the approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in other (income) and expense. Income and expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. These translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in which exchange rates change.  
     
   Derivative Financial Instruments   
     
  Derivatives are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets, investments and sundry assets, other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities. Classification of each derivative as current or noncurrent is based upon whether the maturity of the instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash flows, hedge designation criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting criteria are formally designated as hedges. These criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated hedge period.  
     
  Where the company applies hedge accounting, the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value of a recognized financial asset or liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); (2) the variability of anticipated cash flows of a forecasted transaction, or the cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized financial asset or liability (cash flow hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); or (3) a hedge of a long-term investment (net investment hedge) in a foreign operation. In addition, the company may enter into derivative contracts that economically hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the company elects not to apply hedge accounting. In these cases, there  
     
 90   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income, act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item(s).  
     
  Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge, along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or liabilities, derivative fair value adjustments are recognized in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of applicable taxes, in OCI, in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. When net income is affected by the variability of the underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from the derivative that is deferred in AOCI is released to net income and reported in interest expense, cost, SG A expense or other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in AOCI. Changes in the fair value of the portion of a net investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment are recorded in interest expense. If the underlying hedged item in a fair value hedge ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are included in net income each period until the instrument matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required under other relevant accounting standards.  
     
  Derivatives that are not designated as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item throughout the designated hedge period (collectively,  ineffectiveness ), are recorded in earnings for each period and are primarily reported in other (income) and expense. When a cash flow hedging relationship is discontinued, the net gain or loss in AOCI must generally remain in AOCI until the item that was hedged affects earnings. However, when it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period thereafter, the net gain or loss in AOCI must be reclassified into earnings immediately.  
     
  The company reports cash flows arising from derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that these derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges are classified in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flows from derivatives designated as net investment hedges and derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are reported in cash flows from investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For currency swaps designated as hedges of foreign currency denominated debt (included in the company s debt risk management program as addressed in note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 100 to 107), cash flows directly associated with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are reported in payments to settle debt in cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
   Financial Instruments   
     
  In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. See note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 100 to 107 for further information. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized.  
     
   Fair Value Measurement   
     
  Accounting guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Under this guidance, the company is required to classify certain assets and liabilities based on the following fair value hierarchy:  
     
                   Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that can be accessed at the measurement date; 
     
                   Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and 
     
                   Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. 
     
  The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort.  
     
  When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items within Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.  
     
  The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.  
     
  In determining the fair value of financial instruments, the company considers certain market valuation adjustments to the  base valuations  calculated using the methodologies described below for several parameters that market participants would consider in determining fair value:  
     
                   Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument. 
     
 91   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
                   Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the company s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market. 
     
  As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates. These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative.  
     
  Certain financial assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets include equity method investments that are recognized at fair value at the measurement date to the extent that they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale equity investments that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a financial instrument, fair value is measured using a model described above.  
     
  Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities.  
     
   Cash Equivalents   
     
  All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents.  
     
   Marketable Securities   
     
  Debt securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and alliance equity securities are included in investments and sundry assets. Debt and marketable equity securities are considered available for sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, in OCI. The realized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are included in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method.  
     
  In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and extent to which, the fair value of the investment is below its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; and the company s intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value. Other-than-temporary declines in fair value from amortized cost for available-for-sale equity and debt securities that the company intends to sell or would more likely than not be required to sell before the expected recovery of the amortized cost basis are charged to other (income) and expense in the period in which the loss occurs. For debt securities that the company has no intent to sell and believes that it more likely than not will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in other (income) and expense, while the remaining loss is recognized in OCI. The credit loss component recognized in other (income) and expense is identified as the amount of the principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the debt security as projected using the company s cash flow projections.  
     
   Inventories   
     
  Raw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or net realizable value. Cash flows related to the sale of inventories are reflected in net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
   Allowance for Credit Losses   
     
  Receivables are recorded concurrent with billing and shipment of a product and/or delivery of a service to customers. A reasonable estimate of probable net losses on the value of customer receivables is recognized by establishing an allowance for credit losses.  
     
   Notes and Accounts Receivable Trade   
     
  An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts.  
     
   Factored Receivables   
     
  The company enters into various factoring agreements with third-party financial institutions to sell its receivables (includes notes and accounts receivable-trade, financing receivables and other accounts receivables) under nonrecourse agreements. These transactions are accounted for as a reduction in receivables and are considered sold when: (1) they are transferred beyond the reach of the company and its creditors; (2) the purchaser has the right to pledge or exchange the receivables; and (3) the company has surrendered control over the transferred receivables. The proceeds from these arrangements are reflected as cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
  The gross amounts factored (the gross proceeds) under these programs (primarily relating to notes and accounts receivable-trade) for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2017 were $0.7 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, compared to $0.4 billion and $1.2 billion for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2016, respectively. The fees and the net gains and losses associated with the transfer of receivables were not material for any of the periods presented.  
     
   Financing Receivables   
     
  Financing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans. Leases are accounted for in accordance with lease accounting standards. Loan receivables, including installment payment plans, which are generally unsecured, are primarily for software and services. Loans are financial assets which are recorded at amortized cost which approximates fair value. Commercial financing receivables are carried at amortized  
     
 92   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  cost, which approximates fair value. These receivables are for working capital financing to suppliers, distributors and resellers of IBM and OEM IT products and services. The company determines its allowances for credit losses on financing receivables based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables. The company further segments the portfolio into three classes: Americas, Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific.  
     
  When calculating the allowances, the company considers its ability to mitigate a potential loss by repossessing leased equipment and by considering the current fair market value of any other collateral. The value of the equipment is the net realizable value. The allowance for credit losses for capital leases, installment payment plan receivables and customer loans includes an assessment of the entire balance of the capital lease or loan, including amounts not yet due. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate its receivables reserves, which are applied consistently to its different portfolios, are as follows:  
     
   Individually Evaluated   The company reviews all financing receivables considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, current market-implied credit analysis, as well as the current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. 
     
   Collectively Evaluated   The company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been individually evaluated and specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include significant changes in the economy, or a sudden change in the economic health of a significant client in the company s receivables portfolio. 
     
   Other Credit-Related Policies   
     
   Past Due   The company views receivables as past due when payment has not been received after 90 days, measured from the original billing date. 
     
   Non-Accrual   Non-accrual assets include those receivables (impaired loans or nonperforming leases) with specific reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances, such as a sustained history of payments. 
     
   Impaired Loans   The company evaluates all financing receivables considered at-risk, including loans, for impairment on a quarterly basis. The company considers any receivable with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on non-accrual status as appropriate. Client loans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These receivables are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when appropriate, actions are taken to mitigate risks in these agreements which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation. 
     
   Write Off   Receivable losses are charged against the allowance in the period in which the receivable is deemed uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Write-offs of receivables and associated reserves occur to the extent that the customer is no longer in operation and/or, there is no reasonable expectation of additional collections or repossession. The company s assessments factor in the history of collections and write-offs in specific countries and across the portfolio. 
     
   Estimated Residual Values of Lease Assets   
     
  The recorded residual values of lease assets are estimated at the inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual value estimate. For sales-type and direct-financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period financing income.  
     
   Common Stock   
     
  Common stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the company s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis.  
     
   Earnings Per Share of Common Stock   
     
  Earnings per share (EPS) is computed using the two-class method. The two-class method determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends and dividend equivalents and their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. Basic EPS of common stock is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS of common stock is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock awards, convertible notes and stock options.  
     
 93   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
   NOTE B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES   
     
   New Standards to be Implemented   
     
  In February 2018, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance that allows entities to elect an option to reclassify the stranded tax effects related to the application of U.S. tax reform from accumulated other comprehensive income/ (loss) to retained earnings. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. The company is currently evaluating whether to elect the option and the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results.  
     
  In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance to simplify the application of current hedge accounting in certain areas, better portray the economic results of an entity s risk management activities in its financial statements and make targeted improvements to presentation and disclosure requirements. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of January 1, 2018 and does not expect a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In March 2017, the FASB issued guidance that impacts the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit costs. Under the guidance, the service cost component of net benefit cost will continue to be presented within cost, selling general and administrative expense and research, development and engineering expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, unless eligible for capitalization. The other components of net benefit cost will be presented separately from service cost within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. This presentation change will be applied retrospectively upon adoption. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance as of the effective date. The guidance is primarily a change in financial statement presentation and is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results. The change will have an impact on gross profit margins.  
     
  In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model. The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted. The company has established an implementation team and is evaluating the impact of the new guidance.  
     
  The FASB issued guidance in February 2016, with amendments in 2018, which changes the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. There are certain practical expedients that can be elected which the company is currently evaluating for application. The guidance is effective January 1, 2019 and early adoption is permitted. The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date.  
     
  A cross-functional implementation team has been established which is evaluating the lease portfolio, system, process and policy change requirements. The company has made progress in gathering the necessary data elements for the lease population and a system provider has been selected, with system configuration and implementation underway. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The company is currently planning on electing the package of practical expedients to not reassess prior conclusions related to contracts containing leases, leases classification, and initial direct costs and is evaluating the other practical expedients available under the guidance.  
     
  The company s operating lease commitments were $6.6 billion at December 31, 2017. In 2017, the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance resulted in the company recognizing $452 million of sales-type lease revenue that would otherwise have been recognized over the lease period as operating lease revenue. The company continues to assess the potential impacts of the guidance, including normal ongoing business dynamics or potential changes in contracting terms.  
     
  In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplifies the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was not permitted except for limited provisions. The company adopted the guidance on the effective date. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition will depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the cumulative catch-up transition method.  
     
  Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the company began its assessment process in 2014 and has completed its changes to policy, processes, systems and controls. This also included the assessment of data availability and presentation necessary to meet the additional disclosure requirements of the guidance in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements beginning in the first quarter of 2018.  
     
 94   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software and services offerings to remain largely unchanged. However, the guidance is expected to change the timing of revenue recognition in certain areas, including recognizing revenue for certain software licenses over time versus at a point in time, in limited circumstances. These impacts are not expected to be material. The company expects to continue to recognize revenue for term license (recurring license charge) software arrangements on a monthly basis over the period that the client is entitled to use the license due to the contractual terms in these arrangements. Since the company currently expenses sales commissions as incurred, the requirement in the new standard to capitalize certain in-scope sales commissions will result in an accounting change for the company. This change is not expected to be material to the consolidated financial results, with no impact to cash flows.  
     
  At January 1, 2018, $557 million was reclassified from notes and accounts receivable-trade and deferred income-current to prepaid expenses and other current assets to establish the opening balance for net contract assets. In-scope sales commission costs previously recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings were capitalized in accordance with the transition guidance, in the amount of $737 million. Deferred income of $29 million was recorded for certain software licenses that will be recognized over time versus at a point in time. Additionally, net deferred taxes was reduced $184 million in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $524 million. The amortization of capitalized sales commissions compared to the previous method of recognition on an as-incurred basis is not expected to have a material impact to the company s consolidated financial results.  
     
   Standards Implemented   
     
  In January 2017, the FASB issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business. The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer. Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment. The guidance was effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption was permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method. At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments and sundry assets and prepaid expenses and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings. Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net increase to retained earnings of $102 million. In January 2017, the company had one transaction that generated a $582 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income and a benefit to both basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.62 per share for the year ended December 31, 2017. There was no other impact in the consolidated financial results for the year ended December 31, 2017. The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope.  
     
  In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The guidance was effective and adopted by the company on January 1, 2017, and it did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The ongoing impact of the guidance could result in increased volatility in the provision for income taxes and earnings per share in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, depending on the company s share price at exercise or vesting of share-based awards compared to grant date, however these impacts are not expected to be material. These impacts are recorded on a prospective basis. The company continues to estimate forfeitures in conjunction with measuring stock-based compensation cost. The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to adoption, the company reported this activity as an operating cash outflow and as a result, prior periods have been reclassified as required. The FASB also issued guidance in May 2017, which relates to the accounting for modifications of share-based payment awards. The company adopted the guidance in the second quarter of 2017. The guidance had no impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance eliminating the requirement that an acquirer in a business combination account for a measurement-period adjustment retrospectively. Instead, an acquirer will recognize a measurement-period adjustment during the period in which the amount of the adjustment is determined. In addition, the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date should be presented separately on the face of the income statement or disclosed in the notes. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In May 2015, the FASB issued guidance which removed the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. The amendments also removed the requirement to make certain disclosures for all investments that are eligible to be measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Rather, those disclosures are limited to investments for which the entity has elected to measure the fair value using that practical expedient. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016. The guidance was a change in disclosure only and did not have an impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
 95   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a services contract. All software licenses recognized under this guidance will be accounted for consistent with other licenses of intangible assets. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 and the company adopted it on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
   NOTE C. ACQUISITIONS/DIVESTITURES   
     
   Acquisitions   
     
  Purchase price consideration for all acquisitions, as reflected in the tables in this note, was paid primarily in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents.  
     
   2017   
     
  In 2017, the company completed five acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $134 million. All of these acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses.  
     
  The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of three businesses: in the first quarter, Agile 3 Solutions, LLC (Agile 3 Solutions), a privately held business; in the third quarter, the cloud and managed hosting services business from a large U.S. telecommunications company, and Cloudigo Ltd. (Cloudigo), a privately held business. The Cognitive Solutions segment completed the acquisition of one privately held business: in the second quarter, XCC Web Content   Custom Apps Extension (XCC) from TIMETOACT Software   Consulting GmbH. Global Business Services (GBS) completed the acquisition of one privately held business: in the fourth quarter, Vivant Digital (Vivant).  
     
  Each acquisition is expected to enhance the company s portfolio of product and services capabilities. Agile 3 Solutions is a developer of software used by C-Suite and senior executives to better visualize, understand and manage risks associated with the protection of sensitive data and adds capabilities to the company s security portfolio. The acquisition of the cloud and managed hosting services business of a large U.S. telecommunications company strengthens the company s services portfolio and aligns with its cloud strategy. Cloudigo brings talent and technology that aligns closely with the company s cloud platform investments in advanced network processing. XCC s technology enhances IBM s Connections Cloud platform by providing a single, accessible engagement center for sharing content. Vivant extends the strategy and design expertise of IBM Interactive Experience (IBM iX) and helps accelerate clients  digital transformations.  
     
  The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2017.  
     
   2017 Acquisitions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amortization        

Total        

Life (in Years)        

Acquisitions        

Current assets       

$        
 
   18        

Fixed assets/noncurrent   assets       

69        

Intangible   assets       

Goodwill       

N/A        

16        

Completed   technology       

5        

9        

Client   relationships       

5 7        

64        

Patents/trademarks       

1 5        

1        

Total   assets acquired        

177        

Current   liabilities       

(9        
 
   )            

Noncurrent   liabilities       

(34        
 
   )            

Total   liabilities assumed        

(43        
 
   )            

Total   purchase price        

$        
 
   134        

N/A Not applicable  
     
  The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations using the acquisition method, and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired businesses and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualify as an amortizable intangible asset.  
     
  The overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 6.6 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $13 million has been assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment and goodwill of $3 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that approximately 50 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes.  
     
   2016   
     
  In 2016, the company completed fifteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $5,899 million.  
     
   The Weather Company (TWC)   On January 29, 2016, the company completed the acquisition of TWC s B2B, mobile and cloud-based Web-properties, weather.com, Weather Underground, The Weather Company brand and WSI, its global business-to-business brand, for cash consideration of $2,278 million. The cable television segment was not acquired by IBM, but is licensing weather forecast data and analytics from IBM under a long-term contract. TWC was a privately held business. Goodwill of $1,717 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.9 years. 
     
   Truven Health Analytics, Inc. (Truven)   On April 8, 2016, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Truven, a leading provider of healthcare analytics solutions, for cash consideration of $2,612 million, of which $2,412 million was paid in April 2016 and $148 million was paid in July 2017. Truven has developed proprietary analytic methods and assembled 
     
 96   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  analytic content assets, creating extensive national healthcare utilization, performance, quality and cost data. Truven was a privately held business. Goodwill of $1,933 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It was expected that approximately 15 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.9 years.  
     
   Other Acquisitions   The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of four businesses: in the first quarter: Ustream, Inc. (Ustream), a privately held business, and AT T s application and hosting services business; in the third quarter, G4S s cash solutions business; and in the fourth quarter, Sanovi Technologies Private Limited (Sanovi), a privately held business. GBS completed acquisitions of six privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Resource/Ammirati, ecx International AG (ecx.io) and Optevia Limited (Optevia); in the second quarter, Aperto AG (Aperto) and Bluewolf Group, LLC (Bluewolf); and in the fourth quarter, Fluid, Inc. s Expert Personal Shopper (XPS) business. The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of three privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Resilient Systems, Inc. (Resilient) and EZ Legacy, Ltd. (EZSource); and in the fourth quarter, Promontory Financial Group, LLC (Promontory). 
     
  Ustream provides cloud-based video streaming to enterprises and broadcasters. The acquisition of AT T s application and hosting services business strengthens the company s cloud portfolio. The acquisition of the G4S cash solutions business brings together the engineering skills of G4S with the company s analytics and remote technology capabilities to expand delivery solutions. Sanovi provides hybrid cloud recovery, cloud migration and business continuity software for enterprise data centers and cloud infrastructure. Resource/Ammirati is a leading U.S.-based digital marketing and creative agency, addressing the rising demand from businesses seeking to reinvent themselves for the digital economy. Ecx.io enhances GBS  IBM iX with new digital marketing, commerce and platform skills to accelerate clients  digital transformations. Optevia is a Software-as-a Service systems integrator specializing in CRM solutions for public sector organizations. Aperto also joined IBM iX, supporting the company s growth in Europe, with expertise in digital strategy projects, including website and application development. Bluewolf extends the company s analytics, experience design and industry consulting leadership with one of the world s leading Salesforce consulting practices to deliver differentiated, consumer-grade experiences via the cloud. Fluid, Inc. s Expert Personal Shopper business extends the company s portfolio of SaaS offerings and services, helping clients conduct commerce and engage with their customers. Resilient, a provider of incident response solutions, automates and orchestrates the many processes needed when dealing with cyber incidents from breaches to lost devices. EZSource helps developers quickly and easily understand and change mainframe code based on data displayed through dashboards and other visualizations. Promontory, a global market-leading risk management and regulatory compliance consulting firm, helps address clients  escalating regulations and risk management requirements.  
     
  All of these Other Acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses.  
     
  The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2016.  
     
   2016 Acquisitions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  
  *                    Bargain purchase gain relating to AT T s application and hosting services business was recognized in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the three months ended March 31, 2016. 
     
  For the Other Acquisitions, the overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired was 6.3 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $119 million was assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment, goodwill of $303 million was assigned to the GBS segment and goodwill of $171 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It was expected that approximately 55 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes.  
     
 97   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
   2015   
     
  In 2015, the company completed fourteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $3,555 million.  
     
   Merge Healthcare, Inc. (Merge)   On October 13, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Merge, a publicly held business and a leading provider of medical image handling and processing, interoperability and clinical systems designed to advance healthcare quality and efficiency, for cash consideration of $1,036 million. Merge joined the company s Watson Health business unit, bolstering clients  ability to analyze and cross-reference medical images against billions of data points already in the Watson Health Cloud. Goodwill of $695 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions ($502 million) and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms ($193 million) segments. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 7.0 years. 
     
   Cleversafe, Inc. (Cleversafe)   On November 6, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Cleversafe, a privately held business and a leading developer and manufacturer of object-based storage software and appliances, for cash consideration of $1,309 million. Cleversafe s integration into the company s Cloud business gives clients strategic data flexibility, simplified management and consistency with on-premise, cloud and hybrid cloud deployment options. Goodwill of $1,000 million was assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms ($590 million) and Systems ($410 million) segments. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.9 years. 
     
   Other Acquisitions   The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of six privately held businesses: in the first quarter, AlchemyAI, Inc. (AlchemyAI) and Blekko, Inc. (Blekko); in the second quarter, Explorys, Inc. (Explorys) and Phytel, Inc. (Phytel); in the third quarter, Compose, Inc. (Compose); and in the fourth quarter, IRIS Analytics GmbH (IRIS Analytics). The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of four privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Blue Box Group, Inc. (Blue Box); in the third quarter, StrongLoop, Inc. (StrongLoop); and in the fourth quarter, Gravitant, Inc. (Gravitant) and Clearleap, Inc. (Clearleap). GBS completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses in the fourth quarter, Advanced Application Corporation (AAC) and Meteorix, LLC. (Meteorix). 
     
  AlchemyAI provides scalable cognitive computing application program interface services and computing applications. Blekko technology provides advanced Web-crawling, categorization and intelligent filtering. Explorys provides secure cloud-based solutions for clinical integration, at-risk population management, cost of care measurement and pay-for-performance. Phytel s SaaS-based population health management offerings help providers identify patients at risk for care gaps and engage the patient to begin appropriate preventative care. Blue Box provides hosted, managed, OpenStack-based production-grade private clouds for the enterprise and service provider markets. Compose offers auto-scaling, production-ready databases to help software development teams deploy data services efficiently. StrongLoop provides application development software that enables software developers to build applications using application programming interfaces. AAC engages in system integration application development, software support and services. AAC was an affiliate of JBCC Holdings Inc. and IBM Japan Ltd. The company acquired all the shares of AAC which became a wholly owned subsidiary as of October 1, 2015. Gravitant develops cloud-based software to enable organizations to easily plan, buy and manage, or  broker,  software and computing services from multiple suppliers across hybrid clouds. Meteorix offers consulting, deployment, integration and ongoing post-production services for Workday Financial Management and Human Capital Management applications. Clearleap provides cloud-based video services. IRIS Analytics provides technology and consultancy services to the payments industry to detect electronic payment fraud.  
     
  All of these Other Acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses with the exception of the AAC acquisition.  
     
  The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2015.  
     
   2015 Acquisitions   
       
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  
     
 98   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  For the  Other Acquisitions,  the overall weighted-average life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.4 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $518 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment, $303 million was assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment, and $74 million was assigned to the GBS segment. It was expected that 7 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes.  
     
   Divestitures   
     
   Microelectronics   On October 20, 2014, IBM and GLOBALFOUNDRIES announced a definitive agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES would acquire the company s Microelectronics business, including existing semiconductor manufacturing assets and operations in East Fishkill, NY and Essex Junction, VT. The commercial OEM business acquired by GLOBALFOUNDRIES includes custom logic and specialty foundry, manufacturing and related operations. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. 
     
  At September 30, 2014, the company concluded that the Microelectronics business met the criteria for discontinued operations reporting. The disposal group constituted a component under accounting guidance. The continuing cash inflows and outflows with the discontinued component are related to the manufacturing sourcing arrangement and the transition, packaging and test services. These cash flows are not direct cash flows as they are not significant and the company has no significant continuing involvement.  
     
  All assets and liabilities of the business, classified as held for sale at June 30, 2015, were transferred at closing. The company transferred $515 million of net cash to GLOBALFOUNDRIES in the third quarter of 2015. This amount included $750 million of cash consideration, adjusted by the amount of working capital due from GLOBALFOUNDRIES and other miscellaneous items. A second cash payment in the amount of $500 million was transferred in December 2016 while the remaining cash consideration of $250 million was transferred in December 2017.  
     
  Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is shown in the table below.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Industry Standard Server   On January 23, 2014, IBM and Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) announced a definitive agreement in which Lenovo would acquire the company s industry standard server portfolio (System x) for an adjusted purchase price of $2.1 billion, consisting of approximately $1.8 billion in cash, with the balance in Lenovo common stock. The stock represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in Lenovo. The company sold to Lenovo its System x, BladeCenter and Flex System blade servers and switches, x86-based Flex integrated systems, NeXtScale and iDataPlex servers and associated software, blade networking and maintenance operations. As of March 31, 2016, all Lenovo common stock was sold. 
     
  The initial closing was completed on October 1, 2014. A subsequent closing occurred in most other countries in which there was a large business footprint on December 31, 2014. The remaining countries closed on March 31, 2015. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of pre-tax gains of $63 million, $57 million and $14 million in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.  
     
  Overall, the company expects to recognize a total pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $1.6 billion, which does not include associated costs related to transition and performance-based costs. Net of these charges, the pre-tax gain was approximately $1.3 billion, of which the cumulative gain recorded as of December 31, 2017 is $1.2 billion. The balance of the gain is expected to be recognized in 2019 upon conclusion of the maintenance agreement.  
     
   Others   In addition to those above, the company completed the following divestitures: 
     
   2017   In the first quarter of 2017, the company completed one research-related divestiture. The Cognitive Solutions segment completed four divestitures; two in the second quarter of 2017 and one each in the third and fourth quarter of 2017. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recognized a pre-tax gain of $31 million related to these transactions in 2017. 
     
   2016   In the first quarter of 2016, the company completed four software product-related divestitures. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company completed the divestiture of one service-related offering. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $42 million related to these transactions in 2016. 
     
   2015   In the first quarter of 2015, the company completed two software product-related divestitures and in the second quarter, the company completed one software product-related divestiture and the divestiture of one GBS offering. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the company completed three software product-related divestitures. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $81 million related to these transactions in 2015. 
     
 99   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
   NOTE D. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   
     
   Fair Value Measurements   
     
   Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   
     
  The following tables present the company s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)                Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  (2)                U.S. government securities reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  (3)                Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  (4)                The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2017 were $185 million and $757 million, respectively. 
  (5)                The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2017 were $377 million and $38 million, respectively. 
  (6)                Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value. 
  (7)                If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions each would have been reduced by $255 million. 
     
 100   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)                Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  (2)                U.S. government securities reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  (3)                Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
  (4)                The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 were $532 million and $594 million, respectively. 
  (5)                The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 were $145 million and $61 million, respectively. 
  (6)                Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value. 
  (7)                If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions each would have been reduced by $116 million. 
     
  There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
   Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured     at Fair Value  
     
   Short-Term Receivables and Payables   
     
  Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy, except for short-term debt, which would be classified as Level 2.  
     
   Loans and Long-Term Receivables   
     
  Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
   Long-Term Debt   
     
  Fair value of publicly traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt is $39,837 million and $34,655 million and the estimated fair value is $42,264 million and $36,838 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
 101   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
   Debt and Marketable Equity Securities   
     
  The company s cash equivalents and current debt securities are considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value, which is not materially different from carrying value, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  The following tables summarize the company s noncurrent debt and marketable equity securities which are also considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)                Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)                Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 
     
  During the fourth quarter of 2014, the company acquired equity securities in conjunction with the sale of the System x business which were classified as available-for-sale securities. Based on an evaluation of available evidence as of December 31, 2015, the company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment loss of $86 million resulting in an adjusted cost basis of $185 million as of December 31, 2015. In the first quarter of 2016, the company recorded a gross realized loss of $37 million (before taxes) related to the sale of all the outstanding shares. The loss on this sale was recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
  Sales of debt and available-for-sale equity investments during the period were as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The after-tax net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt and equity securities that have been included in other comprehensive income/(loss) and the after-tax net (gains)/losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) to net income were as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*                    There were no writedowns in 2017 and 2016, respectively. 
     
  The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at December 31, 2017.  
     
   Derivative Financial Instruments   
     
  The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender and borrower in the global markets. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with  
     
 102   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies 
     
  debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the company s lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  
     
  As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The company s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.  
     
  The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $126 million and $11 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $942 million and $1,126 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $255 million and $116 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at December 31, 2017 and 2016, this exposure was reduced by $114 million and $141 million of cash collateral, respectively, and $35 million of non-cash collateral in U.S. Treasury securities at December 31, 2016. There were no non-cash collateral balances in U.S. Treasury securities at December 31, 2017. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $572 million and $834 million, respectively. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the net position related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $160 million and $90 million, respectively.  
     
  In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at December 31, 2017 and 2016 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $114 million and $141 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
  The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders  equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.  
     
  In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments.  
     
  A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows.  
     
   Interest Rate Risk   
     
   Fixed and Variable Rate Borrowings   
     
  The company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total notional amount of the company s interest rate swaps was $9.1 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2017 and 2016 was approximately 4.8 years and 6.2 years, respectively.  
     
 103   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Forecasted Debt Issuance   
     
  The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
  At December 31, 2016, net gains of less than $1 million (before taxes) were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in connection with cash flow hedges of the company s borrowings. During 2017, all gains and losses associated with this program that were recorded in other comprehensive income/(loss) were reclassified to net income and there are no gains and losses remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) at December 31, 2017.  
     
   Foreign Exchange Risk   
     
   Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries   
     
   (Net Investment)   
     
  A large portion of the company s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders  equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $7.0 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments was approximately 0.2 years at both periods.  
     
   Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions   
     
  The company s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $7.8 billion and $8.3 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2017 and 2016 was 0.7 years at both periods.  
     
  At December 31, 2017 and 2016 in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net gains of $27 million and net gains of $462 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts, $81 million of losses and $397 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.  
     
   Foreign Currency Denominated Borrowings   
     
  The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately ten years. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total notional amount of cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $6.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.  
     
  At December 31, 2017 and 2016, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $42 million and net gains of $29 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts, $157 million of gains and $27 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.  
     
   Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency   
     
   Asset/Liability Management   
     
  The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $11.5 billion and $12.7 billion, respectively.  
     
   Equity Risk Management   
     
  The company is exposed to market price changes in certain broad market indices and in the company s own stock primarily related to certain obligations to employees. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations are recorded in selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad market indices or the total return on the company s common stock, and are recorded at fair value with gains or losses also reported in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.  
     
 104   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Other Risks   
     
  The company may hold warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions. The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
  The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
  The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities. The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure. The derivatives are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, the company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding.  
     
  The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, as well as for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   Fair Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   
       
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  
     
  (1)   Debt designated as hedging instruments are reported at carrying value. 
     
 105   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   The Effect of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings   
       
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

*          Reclassified to conform to 2017 presentation. 
  (1)      The amount includes changes in clean fair values of the derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships and the periodic accrual for coupon payments required under these derivative contracts. 
  (2)      The amount includes basis adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item recorded during the period and amortization of basis adjustments recorded on de-designated hedging relationships during the period. 
  (3)      The amount of gain/(loss) recognized in income represents ineffectiveness on hedge relationships. 
  (4)      Instruments in net investment hedges include derivative and non-derivative instruments. 
  (5)      For the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, fair value hedges resulted in losses of $2 million, $4 million and $2 million in ineffectiveness, respectively. 
     
  N/A Not applicable  
     
 106   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  For the 12 months ending December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, there were no significant gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for fair value hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are there any anticipated in the normal course of business.  
     
   NOTE E. INVENTORIES   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE F. FINANCING RECEIVABLES   
     
  The following table presents financing receivables, net of allowances for credit losses, including residual values.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the company s systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases includes unguaranteed residual values of $630 million and $585 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $535 million and $513 million, and net of the allowance for credit losses of $103 million and $133 million at those dates, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2017, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2018, 43 percent; 2019, 27 percent; 2020, 18 percent; 2021, 9 percent; and 2022 and beyond, 3 percent.  
     
  Commercial financing receivables, net of allowance for credit losses of $21 million and $28 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days.  
     
  Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans), net of allowance for credit losses of $211 million and $276 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, are loans that are provided primarily to clients to finance the purchase of hardware, software and services. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years.  
     
  The allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2016 reflected a write-off in the fourth quarter of $188 million of previously reserved customer accounts as a result of recent experience and history across the portfolio, particularly in China. Of this total, $30 million was in Americas, $33 million was in EMEA and $125 million was in Asia Pacific and $73 million and $115 million was in lease receivables and loan receivables, respectively.  
     
  Client loan and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a history of enforcing these financing agreements.  
     
  The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for nonrecourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $773 million and $689 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. These borrowings are included in note J,  Borrowings,  on pages 112 to 115.  
     
  The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
   Financing Receivables by Portfolio Segment   
     
  The following tables present financing receivables on a gross basis, excluding the allowance for credit losses and residual value, by portfolio segment and by class, excluding commercial financing receivables and other miscellaneous financing receivables at December 31, 2017 and 2016. The company determines its allowance for credit losses based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables, and further segments the portfolio into three classes: Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. This portfolio segmentation was changed from growth markets and major markets in 2017 as the company no longer manages the business under those market delineations. There was no impact to segment reporting or the company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
     
 107   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis. For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. In addition, the company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history.  
     
 108   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Financing Receivables on Non-Accrual Status   
     
  The following table presents the recorded investment in financing receivables which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Impaired Receivables   
     
  The company considers any receivable with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired receivable. Depending on the level of impairment, receivables will also be placed on a non-accrual status. The following tables present impaired receivables at December 31, 2017 and 2016. This presentation includes both loan and lease receivables.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

Credit Quality Indicators   
     
  The company s credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moody s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit rating.  
     
  The tables present the net recorded investment for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at December 31, 2017 and 2016. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company may take to transfer credit risk to third parties.  
     
   Lease Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Loan Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

109   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  At December 31, 2017, the industries which made up Global Financing s receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (33 percent), Government (15 percent), Manufacturing (13 percent), Services (13 percent), Retail (8 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent).  
     
   Lease Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Loan Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

At December 31, 2016, the industries which made up Global Financing s receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (34 percent), Government (14 percent), Manufacturing (13 percent), Services (12 percent), Retail (8 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent).  
     
   Past Due Financing Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)      Only the portion of a financing receivable which is greater than 90 days past due, excluding amounts that are fully reserved. 
  (2)      At a contract level, which includes total billed and unbilled amounts for aged financing receivables greater than 90 days. 
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)      Only the portion of a financing receivable which is greater than 90 days past due, excluding amounts that are fully reserved. 
  (2)      At a contract level, which includes total billed and unbilled amounts for aged financing receivables greater than 90 days. 
     
 110   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Troubled Debt Restructurings   
     
  The company did not have any significant troubled debt restructurings for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
   NOTE G. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Reclassified to conform to 2017 presentation.  
     
   NOTE H. INVESTMENTS AND SUNDRY ASSETS   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred arrangements are related to services client arrangements. Refer to note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 87 for additional information. 
     
   NOTE I. INTANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDING GOODWILL   
     
   Intangible Assets   
     
  The following table details the company s intangible asset balances by major asset class.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. 
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. 
     
  The net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $946 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily due to intangible asset amortization, partially offset by additions resulting from capitalized software. There was no impairment of intangible assets recorded in 2017 and 2016. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $1,520 million and $1,544 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In addition, in 2017 and 2016, respectively, the company retired $1,753 million and $817 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount.  
     
  The amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years relating to intangible assets currently recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be the following at December 31, 2017:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

111   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Goodwill   
  The changes in the goodwill balances by reportable segment, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, are as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Primarily driven by foreign currency translation.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Primarily driven by foreign currency translation. 
     
  There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during 2017 or 2016 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses.  
     
  Purchase price adjustments recorded in 2017 and 2016 were related to acquisitions that were completed on or prior to September 30, 2017 or September 30, 2016, respectively, and were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments of $38 million were recorded during 2017, with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, other taxes payable and other current liabilities associated with the Truven Health Analytics, Inc. and The Weather Company acquisitions. Net purchase price adjustments of $7 million were recorded during 2016, with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, accounts receivable, deferred income, inventory and other current liabilities.  
     
   NOTE J. BORROWINGS   
     
   Short-Term Debt   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The weighted-average interest rate for commercial paper at December 31, 2017 and 2016 was 1.5 percent and 0.7 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans were 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
 112   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Long-Term Debt   
     
   Pre-Swap Borrowing   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Includes notes, debentures, bank loans, secured borrowings and capital lease obligations. 
     
  **The portion of the company s fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as an amount equal to the sum of the debt s carrying value and a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates.  
     
  There are no debt securities issued and outstanding by IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation, the parent. Any debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC, would be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent.  
     
 113   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  During the third quarter of 2017, IBM Credit LLC (IBM Credit), a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) allowing it to offer for sale public debt securities. IBM Credit issued fixed- and floating-rate debt securities in September 2017 in the aggregate amount of $3.0 billion with maturity dates ranging from 2019 to 2022. The debt is included in the long-term debt table on page 113.  
     
  The company s indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the company s consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the company s ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million.  
     
  The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable.  
     
   Post-Swap Borrowing (Long-Term Debt, Including Current Portion)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Includes $9,138 million in 2017 and $7,338 million in 2016 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert fixed-rate long-term debt into floating-rate debt. See note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 102 to 107. 
     
  Pre-swap annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2017, are as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Interest on Debt   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Refer to the related discussion on page 144 in note T,  Segment Information,  for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 102 to 107 for a discussion of the use of foreign currency denominated debt designated as a hedge of net investment, as well as a discussion of the use of currency and interest rate swaps in the company s debt risk management program.  
     
   Lines of Credit   
     
  In 2016, the company increased the size of its five-year Credit Agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) to $10.25 billion and extended the term by one year to November 10, 2021. The total expense recorded by the company related to this Credit Agreement was $6.1 million in 2017, $5.5 million in 2016 and $5.3 million in 2015. The Credit Agreement permits the company and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10.25 billion on a revolving basis. Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing lenders, or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $1.75 billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement term. Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The company believes that circumstances that might give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as specified in the Credit Agreement, are remote.  
     
  The company also has other committed lines of credit in some of the geographies which are not significant in the aggregate. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions.  
     
 114   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  On July 20, 2017, the company and IBM Credit, (the Borrowers), entered into a $2.5 billion 364-Day Credit Agreement, and a $2.5 billion Three-Year Credit Agreement (the New Credit Agreements, and together with the Credit Agreement, the Credit Facilities). IBM also entered into the Third Amendment to its Credit Agreement. The total expense recorded by the company related to the New Credit Agreements was $2.8 million in 2017. The New Credit Agreements permit the Borrowers to borrow up to an aggregate of $5 billion on a revolving basis. Neither Borrower is a guarantor or co-obligor of the other Borrower under the New Credit Agreements. Subject to certain conditions stated in the New Credit Agreements, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the New Credit Agreements at any time during the term of the New Credit Agreements. Funds borrowed may be used for the general corporate purposes of the Borrowers. Interest rates on borrowings under the New Credit Agreements will be based on prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the New Credit Agreements. The New Credit Agreements contain customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The Amendment to the Credit Agreement adds and restates various provisions in order to provide the company with the opportunity in 2018 to request that the lenders extend the termination date of the Credit Agreement to July 20, 2023.  
     
  As of December 31, 2017, there were no borrowings by the company, or its subsidiaries, under the Credit Facilities.  
     
   NOTE K. OTHER LIABILITIES   
     
  ($ in millions)  

* Primarily related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business.  
     
  In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost competitiveness and to rebalance skills. The noncurrent contractually obligated future payments associated with these activities are reflected in the workforce reductions caption in the previous table. This also includes certain special restructuring-related actions prior to 2006. The noncurrent liabilities are workforce accruals related to terminated employees who are no longer working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual country s legal requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving pension benefits or passes away. Current liabilities are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and were immaterial at December 31, 2017.  
     
  The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in nature. The company also participates in environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The company s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts have been recorded for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $267 million and $272 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of the company s operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations.  
     
  As of December 31, 2017, the company was unable to estimate the range of settlement dates and the related probabilities for certain asbestos remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related to the encapsulated structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement unless the buildings are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the company would remediate only if it performed major renovations of certain existing buildings. Because these conditional obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, the company could not develop a reasonable estimate of their fair values. The company will continue to assess its ability to estimate fair values at each future reporting date. The related liability will be recognized once sufficient additional information becomes available. The total amounts accrued for ARO liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were $152 million and $173 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
 115   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE L. EQUITY ACTIVITY   
  The authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common stock with a $.20 per share par value, of which 922,179,225 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2017 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a $.01 per share par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2017.  
     
   Stock Repurchases   
  The Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased 27,237,179 common shares at a cost of $4,323 million, 23,283,400 common shares at a cost of $3,455 million and 30,338,647 common shares at a cost of $4,701 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. These amounts reflect transactions executed through December 31 of each year. Actual cash disbursements for repurchased shares may differ due to varying settlement dates for these transactions. At December 31, 2017, $3,786 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions.  
     
   Other Stock Transactions   
  The company issued the following shares of common stock as part of its stock-based compensation plans and employees stock purchase plan: 4,311,998 shares in 2017, 3,893,366 shares in 2016, and 6,013,875 shares in 2015. The company issued 463,083 treasury shares in 2017, 383,077 treasury shares in 2016 and 1,155,558 treasury shares in 2015, as a result of restricted stock unit releases and exercises of stock options by employees of certain acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. Also, as part of the company s stock-based compensation plans, 1,226,080 common shares at a cost of $193 million, 854,365 common shares at a cost of $126 million, and 1,625,820 common shares at a cost of $248 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. These amounts are included in the treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.  
     
   Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income   
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)      These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  for additional information.) 
     
 116   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Reclassified to conform to 2017 presentation.  
  (1)      These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  for additional information.) 
     
 117   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Reclassified to conform to 2017 presentation.  
  (1)      These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  for additional information.) 
     
   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (net of tax)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Foreign currency translation adjustments are presented gross except for any associated hedges which are presented net of tax.  
     
 118   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE M. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS   
     
   Contingencies   
     
  As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. Also, as is typical for companies of IBM s scope and scale, the company is party to actions and proceedings in various jurisdictions involving a wide range of labor and employment issues (including matters related to contested employment decisions, country-specific labor and employment laws, and the company s pension, retirement and other benefit plans), as well as actions with respect to contracts, product liability, securities, foreign operations, competition law and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise.  
     
  The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
     
  In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations.  
     
  With respect to certain of the claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed herein, the company believes at this time that the likelihood of any material loss is remote, given, for example, the procedural status, court rulings, and/or the strength of the company s defenses in those matters. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. It is the company s experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the company s potential liability. Further, the company is unable to provide such an estimate due to a number of other factors with respect to these claims, suits, investigations and proceedings, including considerations of the procedural status of the matter in question, the presence of complex or novel legal theories, and/or the ongoing discovery and development of information important to the matters. The company reviews claims, suits, investigations and proceedings at least quarterly, and decisions are made with respect to recording or adjusting provisions and disclosing reasonably possible losses or range of losses (individually or in the aggregate), to reflect the impact and status of settlement discussions, discovery, procedural and substantive rulings, reviews by counsel and other information pertinent to a particular matter.  
     
  Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the company s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will depend on a number of variables, including: the timing and amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter that may give rise to additional factors. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the company s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters.  
     
  The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company.  
     
  The company is a defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake City, Utah by the SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of AT T s UNIX IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to the company s distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux and the company has asserted counterclaims. On September 14, 2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this case were stayed. The court in another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., held a trial in March 2010. The jury found that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare copyrights; the judge subsequently ruled that SCO is obligated to recognize Novell s waiver of SCO s claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. On August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district court s ruling and denied SCO s appeal of this matter. In June 2013, the Federal Court in Utah granted SCO s motion to reopen the SCO v. IBM case. In February 2016, the Federal Court ruled in favor of IBM on all of SCO s remaining claims, and SCO appealed. On October 30, 2017, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal of all but one of SCO s remaining claims, which was remanded to the Federal Court in Utah.  
     
 119   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  On May 13, 2010, IBM and the State of Indiana (acting on behalf of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration) sued one another in a dispute over a 2006 contract regarding the modernization of social service program processing in Indiana. After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the State s claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs. On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judge s findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the State s damages, if any. The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial court s award of damages to IBM. On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court. On August 7, 2017, the Indiana Superior Court awarded the State $128 million, which it then offset against IBM s previously affirmed award of $50 million, resulting in a $78 million award to the State, plus interest. IBM appealed to the Indiana Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending.  
     
  On March 9, 2017, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania s Department of Labor and Industry sued IBM in Pennsylvania state court regarding a 2006 contract for the development of a custom software system to manage the Commonwealth s unemployment insurance benefits programs. The matter is pending in a Pennsylvania court.  
     
  On October 29, 2013, Bridgestone Americas, Inc. (Bridgestone) sued IBM regarding a 2009 contract for the implementation of an SAP-based, enterprise-wide order management system. IBM counterclaimed against Bridgestone and its parent, Bridgestone Corp. The case is pending in the Middle District of Tennessee.  
     
  On April 16, 2014, Iusacell SA de C.V. (Iusacell) sued IBM, claiming that IBM made fraudulent misrepresentations that induced Iusacell to enter into an agreement with IBM Mexico. Iusacell claimed damages for lost profits. Iusacell s complaint related to a contractual dispute in Mexico, which was the subject of a pending arbitration proceeding in Mexico initiated by IBM Mexico against Iusacell for breach of the underlying agreement. On August 31, 2017, the parties entered into an agreement releasing all claims against each other, resolving both the lawsuit and the arbitration proceeding.  
     
  IBM UK initiated legal proceedings in May 2010 before the High Court in London against the IBM UK Pensions Trust (the UK Trust) and two representative beneficiaries of the UK Trust membership. IBM UK sought a declaration that it acted lawfully both in notifying the Trustee of the UK Trust that it was closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing the company s new retirement policy. In April 2014, the High Court acknowledged that the changes made to its UK defined benefit plans were within IBM s discretion, but ruled that IBM breached its implied duty of good faith both in implementing these changes and in the manner in which it consulted with employees. Proceedings to determine remedies were held in July 2014, and in February 2015 the High Court held that for IBM to make changes to accruals under the plan would require a new consultation of the participants, but other changes (including to early retirement policy) would not require such consultation. IBM UK appealed both the breach and remedies judgments. In August 2017, the Appeal Court reversed the High Court, holding that IBM UK was not in breach of its implied duties of good faith and that the changes made to the plans were lawful. The time to appeal has expired and the Appeal Court judgment is final. In addition, IBM UK is a defendant in approximately 290 individual actions brought since early 2010 by participants of the defined benefits plans who left IBM UK. These actions, which allege constructive dismissal and age discrimination, are pending before the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK.  
     
  In early 2012, IBM notified the SEC of an investigation by the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau involving allegations of illegal activity by a former IBM Poland employee in connection with sales to the Polish government. IBM cooperated with the SEC and Polish authorities in this matter. In April 2013, IBM learned that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) was also investigating allegations related to the Poland matter, as well as allegations relating to transactions in Argentina, Bangladesh and Ukraine. The DOJ was seeking information regarding the company s global Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) compliance program and its public sector business. The company cooperated with the DOJ in this matter. In June 2017, the DOJ and the SEC each informed IBM that based on the information to date, they closed their respective investigations into these matters without pursuing any enforcement action against the company.  
     
  In May 2015, a putative class action was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the company s October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ). Management s Retirement Plans Committee and three current or former IBM executives are named as defendants. On September 29, 2017, the Court granted the defendants  motion to dismiss the first amended complaint. Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals and the matter remains pending.  
     
  In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC is conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland. The company is cooperating with the SEC in this matter.  
     
  The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as  Superfund,  or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites.  
     
 120   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. The total potential amount related to all these matters for all applicable years is approximately $1.0 billion. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability.  
     
   Commitments   
     
  The company s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused amounts of $8,111 million and $6,542 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company s business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $3,569 million and $2,463 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
  The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor s performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.  
     
  The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual obligations and certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, the procedures of which typically allow the company to challenge the other party s claims. While typically indemnification provisions do not include a contractual maximum on the company s payment, the company s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/ or nature of claim, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the company.  
     
  It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the company s business, financial condition or results of operations.  
     
  In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $19 million and $34 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was immaterial.  
     
   NOTE N. TAXES   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The components of the income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

121   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the company s effective tax rate from continuing operations is as follows:  

Percentages rounded for disclosure purposes.  
     
  The significant components reflected within the tax rate reconciliation labeled  Foreign tax differential  include the effects of foreign subsidiaries  earnings taxed at rates other than the U.S. statutory rate, foreign export incentives, the U.S. tax impacts of non-U.S. earnings repatriation and any net impacts of intercompany transactions. These items also reflect audit settlements, excluding the 2016 Japan resolution, or changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with each of these items.  
     
  On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted. U.S. tax reform introduced many changes, including lowering the U.S. corporate tax rate to 21 percent, changes in incentives, provisions to prevent U.S. base erosion and significant changes in the taxation of international income, including provisions which allow for the repatriation of foreign earnings without U.S. tax. The enactment of U.S. tax reform resulted in a provisional charge of $5,475 million to tax expense in the fourth-quarter and year-ended December 31, 2017. This charge was the result of the one-time U.S. transition tax and any foreign tax costs on undistributed foreign earnings, as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances to the new U.S. Federal tax rate.  
     
  The net charge related to U.S. tax reform is based on the company s estimates as of December 31, 2017. All components of the provisional charge of $5,475 million are based on the company s estimates as of December 31, 2017. Specifically, the transition tax, any foreign tax costs as well as the remeasurement of deferred tax balances are provisional and have been calculated based on existing tax law and the best information available as of the date of estimate. The final impact of U.S. tax reform may differ, possibly materially, due to factors such as changes in interpretations and assumptions that the company has made in its assessment, conclusion of the effects of the  Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income  provisions, further refinement of the company s calculations, additional guidance that may be issued by the U.S. government, among other items. As these various factors are finalized, any change will be recorded as an adjustment to the provision for, or benefit from, income taxes in the period the amounts are determined, not to exceed 12 months from the date of U.S. tax reform enactment.  
     
  In late January 2018, the U.S. Treasury and Internal Revenue Service issued guidelines, which are expected to result in an additional charge in the first quarter of 2018, estimated at approximately $110 million.  
     
  The 2017 continuing operations effective tax rate increased 45.8 points from 2016 driven by: the tax charge related to the impact of U.S. tax reform described above (48.0 points), the favorable resolution of the longstanding tax matter in Japan in 2016 (9.5 points) and an increase in the year-to-year tax charges related to intercompany payments (1.5 points). These impacts were partially offset by an increased benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits (5.4 points), a tax benefit related to an intra-entity asset transfer in the first quarter of 2017 (5.1 points), a benefit due to the tax write down of an intercompany investment in the fourth quarter of 2017 (1.7 points), and a benefit due to the geographic mix of pre-tax earnings (1.0 points).  
     
  The effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities was a benefit of $270 million driven by U.S. tax reform and was included in the one-time charge.  
     
   Deferred Tax Assets   
     
  ($ in millions)  

122   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Deferred Tax Liabilities   
     
  ($ in millions)  

For financial reporting purposes, the company has foreign and domestic loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $507 million, as well as foreign and domestic credit carryforwards of $1,235 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least two years and the majority are available for 10 years or more.  
     
  The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $1,004 million, $916 million and $740 million, respectively. The amounts principally apply to certain foreign, state and local loss carryforwards and credits. In the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance will reduce income tax expense.  
     
  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2017 increased by $3,291 million in 2017 to $7,031 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The additions to unrecognized tax benefits related to the current and prior years are primarily attributable to U.S. tax issues, as well as non-U.S. issues, certain tax incentives and credits and state issues. The settlements and reductions to unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions of prior years are primarily attributable to non-U.S. audits and impacts due to lapses in statutes of limitation.  
     
  The liability at December 31, 2017 of $7,031 million can be reduced by $967 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with timing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, potential transfer pricing adjustments, and state income taxes. The net amount of $6,064 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company s effective tax rate. The net amounts at December 31, 2016 and 2015 were $2,965 million and $3,724 million, respectively.  
     
  Interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities are included in income tax expense. During the year ended December 31, 2017, the company recognized $174 million in interest expense and penalties; in 2016, the company recognized $62 million in interest expense and penalties; and, in 2015, the company recognized $141 million in interest expense and penalties. The company has $799 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2017, and had $625 million accrued at December 31, 2016.  
     
  Within the next 12 months, the company believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain positions may be reduced. The potential decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits is associated with the anticipated resolution of the company s U.S. income tax audit for 2013 and 2014, as well as various non-U.S. audits. The company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2017 could be reduced by $1,062 million.  
     
  The company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and foreign jurisdictions. With respect to major U.S. state and foreign taxing jurisdictions, the company is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2013. With limited exception, the company is no longer subject to income tax examination of its U.S. federal tax return for years prior to 2013. The open years contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations related to the amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any significant adjustments that are expected to result for these years.  
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company received a draft tax assessment notice for approximately $866 million (approximately $839 million at 2017 year-end currency rates) from the Indian Tax Authorities for 2009. In July 2016, the Karnataka High Court in Bangalore set aside this assessment by way of court order and the company reached a mutual agreement with the Income Tax Department for a new assessment. On January 2, 2018, the Income Tax Department issued the new 2009 draft tax assessment for approximately $330 million. The revised draft tax assessment is in line with prior and future tax assessments and the company is confident that it will ultimately prevail on the matters raised in the assessment. At December 31, 2017, the company has recorded $585 million as prepaid income taxes in India. A significant portion of this balance represents cash tax deposits paid over time to protect the company s right to appeal various income tax assessments made by the Indian Tax Authorities. The company believes it will prevail on these matters.  
     
 123   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In the first quarter of 2016, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced its audit of the company s U.S. tax returns for 2013 and 2014. The company anticipates that this audit will be substantially completed in the first quarter of 2018.  
     
  Included in consolidated retained earnings at December 31, 2017 are undistributed after-tax earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries, as well as a provisional amount of U.S. income taxes and foreign distribution taxes associated with the repatriation of these earnings.  
     
   NOTE O. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING   
     
  RD E expense was $5,787 million in 2017, $5,751 million in 2016 and $5,247 million in 2015. In addition, RD E expense included in discontinued operations was $1 million in 2016 and $197 million in 2015.  
     
  The company incurred total expense of $5,367 million, $5,421 million and $5,178 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, for scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses, as well as services and their application. Within these amounts, software-related expense was $3,275 million, $3,470 million and $3,064 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
  Expense for product-related engineering was $420 million, $332 million and $267 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   NOTE P. EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK   
     
  The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

Weighted-average stock options to purchase 209,294 common shares in 2017, 405,552 common shares in 2016 and 41,380 common shares in 2015 were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares for the full year, and therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive.  
     
 124   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE Q. RENTAL EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS   
     
  Rental expense, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,821 million in 2017, $1,508 million in 2016 and $1,474 million in 2015. Within these amounts, rental expense reflected in discontinued operations was $29 million in 2015. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the determination of rental expense as accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with workforce transformation, sublease income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect activities primarily related to office space, data centers, equipment and vehicles.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE R. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION   
     
  The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Reflects the one-time effects related to divestitures. 
     
  The implementation of the new FASB guidance for share-based payment transactions resulted in an immaterial impact to income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2017.  
     
  Total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $851 million and $934 million, respectively. The amount at December 31, 2017 is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.6 years.  
     
  There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015.  
     
   Incentive Awards   
     
  Stock-based incentive awards are provided to employees under the terms of the company s long-term performance plans (the  Plans ). The Plans are administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ). Awards available under the Plans principally include restricted stock units, performance share units, stock options or any combination thereof.  
     
  The amount of shares originally authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans was 273 million at December 31, 2017. In addition, certain incentive awards granted under previous plans, if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under the company s existing Plans. As such, 66.2 million additional shares were considered authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans as of December 31, 2017. There were 104.1 million unused shares available to be granted under the Plans as of December 31, 2017.  
     
  Under the company s long-standing practices and policies, all awards are approved prior to or on the date of grant. The awards approval process specifies the individual receiving the grant, the number of options or the value of the award, the exercise price or formula for determining the exercise price and the date of grant. All awards for senior management are approved by the Committee. All awards for employees other than senior management are approved by senior management pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the Committee, and the grants made pursuant to these delegations are reviewed periodically with the Committee. Awards that are given as part of annual total compensation for senior management and other employees are made on specific cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect to awards given in connection with promotions or new hires, the company s policy requires approval of such awards prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or the date of hire.  
     
   Stock Awards   
     
  Stock awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs), or Performance Share Units (PSUs).  
     
 125   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The tables below summarize RSU and PSU activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  
     
   RSUs   

PSUs   

*          Represents the change in shares issued to employees after vesting of PSUs because final performance metrics were above or below specified targets. 
  **Represents the number of shares expected to be issued based on achievement of grant date performance targets. The actual number of shares issued will depend on final performance against specified targets over the vesting period.  
     
  RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. For RSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of such RSUs is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents.  
     
  The remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the awards will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $484 million, $557 million and $606 million, respectively. The total fair value of RSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $463 million, $323 million and $583 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, there was $763 million, $814 million and $800 million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs. The company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on the company s performance against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. For PSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the grant date, based on the company s stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents, and assumes that performance targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. The fair value of PSUs granted at target during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $113 million, $138 million and $174 million, respectively. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $51 million, $81 million and $156 million, respectively.  
     
  In connection with vesting and release of RSUs and PSUs, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $180 million, $118 million and $228 million, respectively.  
     
 126   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Stock Options   
     
  For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2015, the company did not grant stock options. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the company made one grant of 1.5 million premium-priced stock options. The option award was granted with a three-year cliff vesting period and a 10-year contractual term. The award s cost of $12 million is recognized ratably over the three-year vesting period.  
     
  The company estimates the fair value of stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the grant price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the company s stock, the risk-free rate and the company s dividend yield. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the company.  
     
  The following table summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.  

The shares under option at December 31, 2017 were in the following exercise price ranges:  

Exercises of Employee Stock Options   
     
  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was $7 million, $20 million and $74 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $11 million, $33 million and $119 million, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $2 million, $7 million and $26 million, respectively.  
     
  The company settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common shares and, occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury shares held at December 31, 2017 and 2016 were approximately 1,307 million and 1,279 million shares, respectively.  
     
 127   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Acquisitions   
     
  In connection with various acquisition transactions, there was an additional 0.3 million options outstanding at December 31, 2017, as a result of the company s conversion of stock-based awards previously granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these awards was $42 per share.  
     
   IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan   
     
  The company maintains a non-compensatory Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock at a 5 percent discount off the average market price on the day of purchase through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period.  
     
  Employees purchased 1.0 million, 1.2 million and 1.3 million shares under the ESPP during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Cash dividends declared and paid by the company on its common stock also include cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested. The company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing basic and diluted earnings per share.  
     
  In July 2014, the  2014 ESPP Reserve  became effective and 25 million additional shares of authorized common stock were reserved and approved for issuance. The 2014 ESPP provides for semi-annual offerings commencing July 1, 2014, and continuing as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  
     
  Approximately 20.8 million, 21.8 million and 23.1 million shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   NOTE S. RETIREMENT-RELATED BENEFITS   
     
   Description of Plans   
     
  IBM sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and dependents.  
     
   U.S. Plans   
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plans   
     
   IBM Personal Pension Plan   
     
  IBM provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP). The PPP has two plans, a tax qualified plan (Qualified PPP) and a non-tax qualified plan (Excess PPP). The Qualified PPP is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The Excess PPP, which is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified plans.  
     
  Benefits provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit formulas that vary based on the participant. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other participant-specific factors. The second method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a percentage of employees  annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate.  
     
  Benefit accruals under the IBM Personal Pension Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants.  
     
   U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan   
     
  The company also sponsors a nonqualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (Retention Plan). The Retention Plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at termination of employment.  
     
  Benefit accruals under the Retention Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants.  
     
   Defined Contribution Plans   
     
   IBM 401(k) Plus Plan   
     
  U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees receive a dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions generally up to 6 percent of eligible compensation for those hired prior to January 1, 2005, and, generally up to 5 percent of eligible compensation for those hired on or after January 1, 2005. In addition, eligible employees generally receive automatic contributions from the company equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of eligible compensation based on their eligibility to participate in the PPP as of December 31, 2007. Employees generally receive automatic contributions and matching contributions after the completion of one year of service.  
     
 128   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  All contributions, including the company match, are made in cash and invested in accordance with participants  investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of company stock to another investment choice, other than excessive trading rules applicable to such investments. Matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, matching and auto contributions may be made for certain types of separations that occur prior to December 15, including for example, if the participant has completed certain service and/or age requirements at separation. The company s matching contributions vest immediately and participants are always fully vested in their own contributions.  
     
   IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan   
     
  The IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess 401(k)) is an unfunded, nonqualified defined contribution plan. Employees whose eligible compensation is expected to exceed the IRS compensation limit for qualified plans are eligible to participate in the Excess 401(k). The purpose of the Excess 401(k) is to provide benefits that would be provided under the qualified IBM 401(k) Plus Plan if the compensation limits did not apply.  
     
  Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k) are record-keeping (notional) accounts and are not held in trust for the participants. Participants in the Excess 401(k) may invest their notional accounts in investments which mirror the primary investment options available under the 401(k) Plus Plan. Participants in the Excess 401(k) are also eligible to receive company match and automatic contributions (at the same rate as under the 401(k) Plus Plan) on eligible compensation deferred into the Excess 401(k) and on compensation earned in excess of the Internal Revenue Code pay limit once they have completed one year of service. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k), including company contributions are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, matching and auto contributions may be made for certain types of separations that occur prior to December 15, including for example, if the participant has completed certain service and/or age requirements at separation.  
     
   Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan   
     
   U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Plan   
     
  The company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Benefits provided vary based on plan design formulas and eligibility requirements. Under all the plan arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for these benefits.  
     
  Since January 1, 2004, new hires, as of that date or later, are not eligible for company-subsidized nonpension postretirement benefits.  
     
   Non-U.S. Plans   
     
  Certain subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based either on years of service and the employee s compensation (generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflect the different economic environments within the various countries.  
     
  In addition, certain of the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor nonpension postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits to eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most non-U.S. retirees are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs.  
     
 129   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Plan Financial Information   
     
   Summary of Financial Information   
     
  The following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net periodic (income)/cost recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The following table presents a summary of the total PBO for defined benefit pension plans, APBO for nonpension postretirement benefit plans, fair value of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Funded status is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Asset amounts as prepaid pension assets; (Liability) amounts as compensation and benefits (current liability) and retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (noncurrent liability). 
     
 130   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  At December 31, 2017, the company s qualified defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 100 percent funded compared to the benefit obligations, with the U.S. Qualified PPP 104 percent funded. Overall, including nonqualified plans, the company s defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 92 percent funded.  
     
   Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Financial Information   
     
  The following tables through page 134 represent financial information for the company s retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans. The defined benefit pension plans under U.S. Plans consists of the Qualified PPP, the Excess PPP and the Retention Plan. The defined benefit pension plans and the nonpension postretirement benefit plans under non-U.S. Plans consists of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries. The nonpension postretirement benefit plan under U.S. Plan consists of only the U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan.  
     
  The tables below present the components of net periodic (income)/cost of the retirement-related benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, excluding defined contribution plans.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

*          Multi-employer plans costs were $40 million, $43 million and $40 million for 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. The non-U.S. plans amounts include a gain of $91 million in 2017 related to the IBM UK litigation and retirement-related obligations of $56 million and $233 million related to the IBM Spain pension litigation for 2016, and 2015, respectively. 
     
 131   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets of the company s retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*                    Includes the reinstatement of certain plan assets in Brazil due to government rulings in 2011 and 2013 allowing certain previously restricted plan assets to be returned to IBM. Return of assets to IBM over a three-year period began June 2011 and September 2013 respectively, with approximately $23 million returned in 2016. There were no assets returned during 2017. The remaining surplus in Brazil at December 31, 2017 is excluded from total plan assets due to continued restrictions imposed by the government on the use of those plan assets. 
  **             Represents the benefit obligation assuming no future participant compensation increases. 
  N/A Not applicable  
     
 132   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table presents the net funded status recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The following table presents the pre-tax net loss and prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in OCI and the changes in the pre-tax net loss, prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in AOCI for the retirement-related benefit plans.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          See note L,  Equity Activity,  for the total change in AOCI, and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the components of net periodic (income)/cost, including the related tax effects, recognized in OCI for the retirement-related benefit plans. 
     
 133   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table presents the pre-tax estimated net loss, estimated prior service costs/(credits) and estimated transition (assets)/ liabilities of the retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic (income)/cost in 2018.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

On March 24, 2014, the Supreme Court of Spain issued a ruling against IBM Spain in litigation involving its defined benefit and defined contribution plans. During the fourth quarter of 2016, an arbitration ruling related to the defined contribution plan resulted in an additional charge of $56 million. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the company recorded pre-tax retirement-related obligations of $56 million and $233 million, respectively, in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. There were no pre-tax retirement-related obligations for the year ended December 31, 2017. These obligations are reflected in  Non-U.S. Plans Multi-employer plans/other costs  in the table on page 131.  
     
  On October 12, 2012, the High Court in London issued a ruling against IBM United Kingdom Limited and IBM United Kingdom Holdings Limited, both wholly-owned subsidiaries of the company, in litigation involving one of IBM UK s defined benefit plans. As a result of the ruling, the company recorded a pretax retirement-related obligation of $162 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. As a result of the final Court of Appeal ruling received in August 2017, the company adjusted its obligation under the plan. This adjustment resulted in a gain of $91 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, which was recorded in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. This gain is reflected in  Non-U.S. Plans Multi-employer plans/other  in the table on page 131. See note M,  Contingencies and Commitments  for additional information.  
     
   Assumptions Used to Determine Plan Financial Information   
     
  Underlying both the measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic (income)/cost are actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the most significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum, annually, and makes changes as necessary.  
     
  The table below presents the assumptions used to measure the net periodic (income)/cost and the year-end benefit obligations for retirement-related benefit plans.  

N/A Not applicable  
     
 134   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

N/A Not applicable  
     
   Discount Rate   
     
  The discount rate assumptions used for retirement-related benefit plans accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments at the measurement date. For the U.S. and certain non-U.S. countries, a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds is used to construct a yield curve. The cash flows from the company s expected benefit obligation payments are then matched to the yield curve to derive the discount rates. In other non-U.S. countries, where the markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a base, to which a credit spread is added to simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates.  
     
  For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions impacted the net periodic (income)/ cost and the PBO. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in 2017 net periodic income of $64 million, an increase in 2016 net periodic income of $103 million and a decrease in 2015 net periodic income of $286 million. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the PBO of $1,962 million and an increase of $998 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
  For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 and resulted in an increase in the APBO of $88 million and an increase of $33 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
  For all of the company s retirement-related benefit plans, the change in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 2017 and an increase of approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2016.  
     
   Expected Long-Term Returns on Plan Assets   
     
  Expected returns on plan assets, a component of net periodic (income)/cost, represent the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated market-related value of plan assets. Expected long-term returns on plan assets take into account long-term expectations for future returns and the investment policies and strategies as described on page 136. These rates of return are developed by the company and are tested for reasonableness against historical returns. The use of expected long-term returns on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns, and therefore result in a pattern of income and cost recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized as a component of net loss or gain in AOCI, which is amortized as a component of net periodic (income)/cost over the service lives or life expectancy of the plan participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed certain thresholds provided by accounting standards. The market-related value of plan assets recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic (income)/cost.  
     
  For the U.S. defined benefit pension plan, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was 5.75 percent, 7.0 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively. The change in the rate in 2017 resulted in a decrease in 2017 net periodic income of $656 million. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the change in the rate resulted in a decrease in net periodic income of $268 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the change in the rate in resulted in a decrease in net periodic income of $264 million. For 2018, the projected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 5.25 percent. The 50 basis point year-to-year decline is primarily driven by a change in investment strategy.  
     
 135   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company maintains a highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely payments are made. As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not material.  
     
   Rate of Compensation Increases and Mortality Rate   
     
  The rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its long-term plans for such increases. The rate of compensation increase is not applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. Mortality rate assumptions are based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants. Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. In the U.S., the Society of Actuaries released new mortality tables in 2014 and updated them in 2015, 2016 and 2017. The company utilized these tables in its plan remeasurements at December 31, 2017 and 2016. For the U.S. retirement-related plans, the change in mortality assumptions resulted in a decrease to the plan benefit obligations of $0.3 billion and $0.6 billion at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.  
     
   Interest Crediting Rate   
     
  Benefits for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. This assumption provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year and is based on the average from August to October of the one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent.  
     
  For the PPP, the change in the interest crediting rate to 1.6 percent for the year ended December 31, 2017 from 1.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2016 resulted in a decrease in 2017 net periodic income of $14 million. The change in the interest crediting rate to 1.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2016 from 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015 resulted in a decrease in 2016 net periodic income of $7 million. The interest crediting rate of 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015 was unchanged from December 31, 2014 and, therefore, had no impact on 2015 net periodic income.  
     
   Healthcare Cost Trend Rate   
     
  For nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of the plan which limit the company s obligation to the participants. The company assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2018 will be 6.5 percent. In addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5 percent over the next six years. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have had a material effect on 2017, 2016 and 2015 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.  
     
   Plan Assets   
     
  Retirement-related benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value. Because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements may not necessarily reflect the amounts the company could realize in current market transactions.  
     
   Investment Policies and Strategies   
     
  The investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. The precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans  participants. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment and other pertinent factors described previously on pages 135 and 136. The Qualified PPP portfolio s investment strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher yielding assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the portfolio with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could cause the plan to become underfunded, thereby increasing its dependence on contributions from the company. To mitigate any potential concentration risk, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors, companies and geographies, taking into account interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns. During 2016 and 2017, the company changed its investment strategy, modifying the target allocation primarily by reducing equity securities and increasing debt securities. These changes were designed to reduce the potential negative impact that equity markets might have on the funded status of the plan. The Qualified PPP portfolio s target allocation is 12 percent equity securities, 79 percent fixed-income securities, 4 percent real estate and 5 percent other investments.  
     
  The assets are managed by professional investment firms and investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by investment mandates determined by the company s management and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies.  
     
  Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with $4,683 million of the Qualified PPP portfolio as of December 31, 2017 invested in private market assets consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are less liquid than publicly traded securities. In addition, the Qualified PPP portfolio had $1,845 million in commitments for future investments in private markets to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from plan assets.  
     
  Derivatives are used as an effective means to achieve investment objectives and/or as a component of the plan s risk management strategy. The primary reasons for the use of derivatives are fixed income management, including duration, interest rate management and credit exposure, cash equitization and to manage currency and commodity strategies.  
     
 136   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Outside the U.S., the investment objectives are similar to those described previously, subject to local regulations. The weighted-average target allocation for the non-U.S. plans is 23 percent equity securities, 62 percent fixed-income securities, 3 percent real estate and 12 percent other investments, which is consistent with the allocation decisions made by the company s management. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income is required to manage solvency and funding risks. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously described. Generally, these non-U.S. plans do not invest in illiquid assets and their use of derivatives is consistent with the U.S. plan and mainly for currency hedging, interest rate risk management, credit exposure and alternative investment strategies.  
     
  The company s nonpension postretirement benefit plans are underfunded or unfunded. For some plans, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely benefit payments.  
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets   
     
  The following table presents the company s defined benefit pension plans  asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2017. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)      Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $14 million, representing 0.03 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $7 million, representing 0.02 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. 
  (2)      Invests in predominantly equity securities. 
  (3)      Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies. 
  (4)      The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $1 million, representing 0.002 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.002 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. 
  (5)      Invests predominantly in fixed income securities. 
  (6)      Includes cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. 
  (7)      Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives. 
  (8)      Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities. 
  (9)      Investments measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, including commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships. 
  (10)  Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets. 
     
 137   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $18 million were invested primarily in cash equivalents, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $70 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
  The following table presents the company s defined benefit pension plans  asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2016. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)      Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $28 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $15 million, representing 0.04 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. 
  (2)      Invests in predominantly equity securities. 
  (3)      Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies. 
  (4)      The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $4 million, representing 0.01 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.003 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. 
  (5)      Invests in predominantly fixed-income securities. 
  (6)      Includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. 
  (7)      Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives. 
  (8)      Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities. 
  (9)      Investments measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, including commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships. 
  (10)  Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets. 
     
  The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $26 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $71 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
 138   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 for the U.S. Plan.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 for the non-U.S. Plans.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

139   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Valuation Techniques   
     
  The following is a description of the valuation techniques used to measure plan assets at fair value. There were no changes in valuation techniques during 2017 and 2016.  
     
  Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on the stock exchange on which the individual securities are traded. IBM common stock is valued at the closing price reported on the New York Stock Exchange. Mutual funds are typically valued based on quoted market prices. These assets are generally classified as Level 1.  
     
  The fair value of fixed-income securities is typically estimated using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are generally classified as Level 2. If available, they are valued using the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded.  
     
  Cash includes money market accounts that are valued at their cost plus interest on a daily basis, which approximates fair value. Short-term investments represent securities with original maturities of one year or less. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2.  
     
  Real estate valuations require significant judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These assets are initially valued at cost and are reviewed periodically utilizing available and relevant market data, including appraisals, to determine if the carrying value of these assets should be adjusted. These assets are classified as Level 3.  
     
  Exchange traded derivatives are valued at the closing price reported on the exchange on which the individual securities are traded, while forward contracts are valued using a mid-close price. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued using pricing models. The models require a variety of inputs, including, for example, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility and foreign exchange rates. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 depending on availability of quoted market prices.  
     
  Certain investments are measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. These investments, which include commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships, are typically valued using the NAV provided by the administrator of the fund and reviewed by the company. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus liabilities and divided by the number of shares or units outstanding. In accordance with FASB guidance, these investments have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. Refer to note B,  Accounting Changes.   
     
   Contributions   
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plans   
     
  It is the company s general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems appropriate.  
     
  The company contributed $192 million in cash and $176 million in U.S. Treasury securities to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as $40 million in cash to multi-employer plans for the year ended December 31, 2017. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the company contributed $169 million in cash and $295 million in U.S. Treasury securities to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as $43 million in cash to multi-employer plans. The cash contributions to multi-employer plans represent the annual cost included in net periodic (income)/cost recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company s participation in multi-employer plans has no material impact on the company s financial statements.  
     
  In 2018, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. However, depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the Qualified PPP during the year.  
     
  In 2018, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans to be approximately $400 million, the largest of which will be contributed to defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Japan and Spain. This amount generally represents legally mandated minimum contributions.  
     
 140   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Financial market performance in 2018 could increase the legally mandated minimum contribution in certain countries which require monthly or daily remeasurement of the funded status. The company could also elect to contribute more than the legally mandated amount based on market conditions or other factors.  
     
   Defined Contribution Plans   
     
  The company contributed $1,020 million and $1,046 million in cash to the defined contribution plans during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. In 2018, the company estimates cash contributions to the defined contribution plans to be approximately $1.0 billion.  
     
   Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans   
     
  The company contributed $394 million and $305 million to the nonpension postretirement benefit plans during the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The $394 million contribution in 2017 consisted of U.S. Treasury securities. In 2017, excess cash in the plan of $70 million was subsequently transferred to the Active Employee Medical Trust. The $305 million contribution in 2016 consisted of $80 million in cash and $225 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
   Expected Benefit Payments   
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected Payments   
     
  The following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans  PBO at December 31, 2017 and include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases, where applicable.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The 2018 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans) represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
   Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Expected Payments   
     
  The following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans  APBO at December 31, 2017.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The 2018 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
   Other Plan Information   
     
  The following table presents information for defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) in excess of plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of the funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans, see the table on page 132.  
     
 141   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE T. SEGMENT INFORMATION   
     
  The company s major operations consist of five business segments: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, Systems and Global Financing. The segments represent components of the company for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief operating decision maker (the chief executive officer) in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics.  
     
  Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length, market-based transfer price. Systems that are used by Technology Services   Cloud Platforms in outsourcing engagements are primarily sourced internally from the Systems segment and software is sourced from various segments. Software used by Technology Services   Cloud Platforms on external engagements is sourced internally through Cognitive Solutions and the Systems segments. For providing IT services that are used internally, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms and Global Business Services recover cost, as well as a reasonable fee, that is intended to reflect the arm s-length value of providing the services. They enter into arm s-length loans at prices equivalent to market rates with Global Financing to facilitate the acquisition of equipment and software used in services engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate.  
     
  The company utilizes globally integrated support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the segments. This shared expense includes sales coverage, certain marketing functions and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the company s management system, e.g., advertising expense is allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. A portion of the shared expenses, which are recorded in net income, are not allocated to the segments. These expenses are associated with the elimination of internal transactions and other miscellaneous items.  
     
  The following tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the company s segments consistent with the management and measurement system utilized within the company. Performance measurement is based on pre-tax income from continuing operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.  
     
 142   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Management System Segment View   
     
  ($ in millions)  

143   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Reconciliations of IBM as Reported   
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

Immaterial Items   
     
   Investment in Equity Alliances and Equity Alliances Gains/(Losses)   
     
  The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these investments that are attributable to the segments did not have a material effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments.  
     
   Segment Assets and Other Items   
     
  Cognitive Solutions assets are mainly goodwill, acquired intangible assets and accounts receivable. Global Business Services assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms assets are primarily goodwill, plant, property and equipment including the assets associated with the outsourcing business, deferred services arrangement transition costs and accounts receivable. Systems assets are primarily goodwill, manufacturing inventory, and plant, property and equipment. Global Financing assets are primarily financing receivables, cash and marketable securities, and fixed assets under operating leases.  
     
  To ensure the efficient use of the company s space and equipment, several segments may share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user segment. This is consistent with the company s management system and is reflected accordingly in the table on page 145. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pre-tax income and segment assets.  
     
  Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included in the segments  pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment.  
     
  Global Financing amounts for interest income and interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the Global Financing business, including the intercompany financing activities discussed on pages 33 and 34, as well as the income from investment in cash and marketable securities. The explanation of the difference between cost of financing and interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 48 of the Management Discussion.  
     
 144   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Management System Segment View   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Segment pre-tax income from continuing operations does not include the amortization of intangible assets.  
     
 145   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Reconciliations of IBM as Reported   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Major Clients   
     
  No single client represented 10 percent or more of the company s total revenue in 2017, 2016 or 2015.  
     
   Geographic Information   
     
  The following provides information for those countries that are 10 percent or more of the specific category.  
     
   Revenue*   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*  Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the client.  
     
   Plant and Other Property Net   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services   
     
  The following table presents external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the company s reportable segments. Client solutions often include IBM software and systems and other suppliers  products if the client solution requires it. For each of the segments that include services; Software-as-a-Service, consulting, education, training and other product-related services are included as services. For each of these segments, software includes product license charges and ongoing subscriptions.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE U. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS   
     
  On January 30, 2018, the company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $1.50 per common share. The dividend is payable March 10, 2018 to shareholders of record on February 9, 2018.  
     
  On February 6, 2018, IBM Credit LLC issued $2.0 billion in bonds as follows: $450 million of 3-year floating-rate bonds priced at LIBOR plus 16 basis points, $800 million of 3-year fixed-rate bonds with a 2.65 percent coupon and $750 million of 5-year fixed-rate bonds with a 3.0 percent coupon.  
     
 146   

Five-Year Comparison of Selected Financial Data   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*          Refer to the  GAAP Reconciliation,  on page 59 of the company s 2015 Annual Report for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2014 and 2013. Also see  GAAP Reconciliation,  on pages 49 and 55 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2017, 2016 and 2015. 
     
 147   

Selected Quarterly Data   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices)  

($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices)  

*          Refer to page 68 of the company s first-quarter 2017 Form 10-Q filed on April 25, 2017, page 82 of the company s second-quarter 2017 Form 10-Q filed on July 25, 2017, page 85 of the company s third-quarter 2017 Form 10-Q filed on October 31, 2017, and page 55 under the heading  GAAP Reconciliation  for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for the fourthquarter of 2017 and 2016. Also see  GAAP Reconciliation,  on page 49 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for full-year 2017 and 2016. 
  **Earnings Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that quarter while EPS for the full year is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four quarters  EPS does not equal the full-year EPS.  
  ++The stock prices reflect the high and low prices for IBM s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the periods presented.  
     
 148   

Performance Graphs   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Comparison of Five- and Ten-Year Cumulative Total Return for IBM, S P 500 Stock Index and S P Information Technology Index   
     
  The following graphs compare the five- and ten-year cumulative total returns for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative of certain Standard   Poor s (S P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the S P 500 Stock Index, the SEC s rules require the use of that index for the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the second index used for comparison may be a published industry or line-of-business index. The S P Information Technology Index is such an index. IBM is also included in this index.  
     
  Each graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the same date in each of the S P indices. The comparisons assume that all dividends are reinvested.  
     
   Five-Year   

Ten-Year   

149   

Stockholder Information   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   IBM Stockholder Services   
     
  Stockholders with questions about their accounts should contact:  
     
  Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 505005, Louisville, Kentucky 40233-5005 (888) IBM-6700  
     
  Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  
     
  Stockholders can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at: ibm@computershare.com  
     
  Hearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2694.  
     
   IBM on the Internet   
     
  Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found online at www.ibm.com. Financial results, news on IBM products, services and other activities can also be found at that website.  
     
  IBM files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC.  
     
  IBM s website (www.ibm.com/investor) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including the company s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These materials are available free of charge on or through our website.  
     
  The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  
     
   Computershare Investment Plan (CIP) (formerly IBM Investor Services Program)   
     
  The Computershare Investment Plan brochure outlines a number of services provided for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  
     
  Investors with other requests may write to: IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504.  
     
   IBM Stock   
     
  IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and outside the United States.  
     
   Stockholder Communications   
     
  Stockholders can get quarterly financial results, a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks, and voting results from the meeting by calling (914) 499-7777, by sending an e-mail to infoibm@us.ibm.com, or by writing to IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504.  
     
   Annual Meeting   
     
  The IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 24, 2018, at 10 a.m. at the Hyatt Regency Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  
     
   Literature for IBM Stockholders   
     
  The literature mentioned below on IBM is available without charge from:  
     
  Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 505005, Louisville, Kentucky 40233-5005 (888) IBM-6700.  
     
  Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  
     
  The company s annual report on Form 10-K and the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q provide additional information on IBM s business. The 10-K report is released by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and November.  
     
  The IBM Corporate Responsibility Report highlights IBM s values and its integrated approach to corporate responsibility, including its innovative strategies to transform communities through global citizenship. Highlights from the Corporate Responsibility Report are available online at ibm.com/responsibility/report. The full Corporate Responsibility Report is available in printed form by downloading the report at ibm.com/responsibility/report.  
     
   General Information   
     
  Stockholders of record can receive account information and answers to frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts online at www.ibm.com/investor. Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports and Proxy Statements online through this site.  
     
  For answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, call (914) 499-1900.  
     
 150   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2233835zex-21.htm
 EX-21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 21            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES            

Subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2017   

Company Name

State or country of 
incorporation or organization    
     
   Voting percent owned directly or indirectly by registrant    

IBM Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada  
     
  Argentina  

100  

IBM Australia Limited  
     
  Australia  

100  

IBM Global Financing Australia Limited  
     
  Australia  

100  

IBM Oesterreich Internationale Bueromaschinen Gesellschaft m.b.H.   
     
  Austria  

100  

IBM Bahamas Limited  
     
  Bahamas  

100  

IBM Bahrain SPC  
     
  Bahrain  

100  

IBM Bangladesh Private Limited  
     
  Bangladesh  

100  

IBM Belgium Financial Services Company sprl/bvba  
     
  Belgium  

100  

International Business Machines of Belgium sprl/buba  
     
  Belgium  

100  

WTC Insurance Corporation, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

100  

IBM Brasil Industria, Maquinas e Servicos Limitada  
     
  Brazil  

100  

Banco IBM S.A.   
     
  Brazil  

100  

IBM Bulgaria Ltd.   
     
  Bulgaria  

100  

IBM Burkina Faso SARL  
     
  Burkina Faso  

100  

IBM Canada Limited IBM Canada Limitee  
     
  Canada  

100  

IBM Global Financing Canada Corporation  
     
  Canada  

100  

IBM Tchad SARLU  
     
  Chad  

100  

IBM de Chile S.A.C.   
     
  Chile  

100  

IBM Global Financing de Chile SpA  
     
  Chile  

100  

IBM (China) Investment Company Limited  
     
  China (P.R.C.)  

100  

IBM (China) Co., Ltd.   
     
  China (P.R.C.)  

100  

IBM Factoring (China) Co., Ltd.   
     
  China (PRC)  

100  

IBM de Colombia   C.I.A. S.C.A.   
     
  Colombia  

100  

IBM Congo SARL  
     
  Congo  

100  

IBM RDC  
     
  Congo Republic  

100  

IBM Business Transformation Center, S.r.l.   
     
  Costa Rica  

100  

IBM Croatia Ltd./IBM Hrvatska d.o.o.   
     
  Croatia  

100  

IBM Ceska Republika spol. s.r.o.   
     
  Czech Republic  

100  

IBM Danmark ApS  
     
  Denmark  

100  

IBM Global Financing Danmark ApS  
     
  Denmark  

100  

IBM del Ecuador, C.A.   
     
  Ecuador  

100  

IBM Egypt Business Support Services  
     
  Egypt  

100  

IBM Eesti Osauhing (IBM Estonia Ou)  
     
  Estonia  

100  

IBM Global Financing Finland Oy  
     
  Finland  

100  

Oy IBM Finland AB  
     
  Finland  

100  

Compagnie IBM France, S.A.S.   
     
  France  

100  

IBM France Financement, SAS  
     
  France  

100  

International Business Machines Gabon SARL  
     
  Gabon  

100  

IBM Deutschland GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

IBM Deutschland Kreditbank GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

IBM Global Financing Deutschland GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

International Business Machines Ghana Limited  
     
  Ghana  

100  

IBM Hellas Information Handling Systems S.A.   
     
  Greece  

100  

IBM China/Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong  

100  

IBM Magyarorszagi Kft.   
     
  Hungary  

100  

IBM India Private Limited  
     
  India  

100  

PT IBM Indonesia  
     
  Indonesia  

100  

IBM Ireland Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

IBM Ireland Product Distribution Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

Company Name

State or country of 
incorporation or organization    
     
   Voting percent owned directly or indirectly by registrant    

IBM Israel Limited  
     
  Israel  

100  

IBM Capital Italia S.r.l.   
     
  Italy  

100  

IBM Italia Servizi Finanziari S.r.l.   
     
  Italy  

100  

IBM Italia S.p.A.   
     
  Italy  

100  

IBM Japan Credit LLC  
     
  Japan  

100  

IBM Japan, Ltd.   
     
  Japan  

100  

IBM East Africa Limited  
     
  Kenya  

100  

IBM Global Financing Korea Limited  
     
  Korea (South)  

100  

IBM Korea, Inc.   
     
  Korea (South)  

100  

IBM Kuwait SPC  
     
  Kuwait  

100  

Sabiedriba ar irobezotu atbildibu IBM Latvija  
     
  Latvia  

100  

IBM Lietuva  
     
  Lithuania  

100  

IBM Services Financial Sector Luxembourg Sarl  
     
  Luxembourg  

100  

International Business Machines Madagascar SARLU  
     
  Madagascar  

100  

International Information Services Management Limited  
     
  Malawi  

100  

IBM CAPITAL MALAYSIA SDN. BHD.   
     
  Malaysia  

100  

IBM Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
     
  Malaysia  

100  

IBM Malta Limited  
     
  Malta  

100  

IBM Mauritius  
     
  Mauritius  

100  

IBM Capital Mexico I, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico  

100  

IBM de Mexico, S. de R.L.   
     
  Mexico  

100  

IBM de Mexico, Comercializacion y Servicios S. de R.L. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico  

100  

IBM Maroc  
     
  Morocco  

100  

IBM International Group B.V.   
     
  Netherlands  

100  

IBM Nederland Financieringen B.V.   
     
  Netherlands  

100  

IBM Nederland B.V.   
     
  Netherlands  

100  

IBM New Zealand Limited  
     
  New Zealand  

100  

IBM Niger SARLU  
     
  Niger  

100  

International Business Machines West Africa Limited  
     
  Nigeria  

100  

IBM Finans Norge AS  
     
  Norway  

100  

International Business Machines AS  
     
  Norway  

100  

IBM Capital Peru S.A.C.   
     
  Peru  

100  

IBM del Peru, S.A.   
     
  Peru  

100  

IBM Philippines, Incorporated  
     
  Philippines  

100  

IBM Global Financing Polska Sp. z.o.o.   
     
  Poland  

100  

IBM Polska Sp. z.o.o.   
     
  Poland  

100  

Companhia IBM Portuguesa, S.A.   
     
  Portugal  

100  

IBM Qatar SSC  
     
  Qatar  

100  

IBM Romania Srl  
     
  Romania  

100  

IBM East Europe/Asia Ltd.   
     
  Russia  

100  

International Business Machines Senegal  
     
  Senegal  

100  

IBM International Business Machines d.o.o., Belgrade  
     
  Serbia  

100  

International Information Services Management Limited  
     
  Seychelles  

100  

IBM Limited  
     
  Sierra Leone  

100  

IBM CAPITAL SINGAPORE PTE. LTD.   
     
  Singapore  

100  

IBM Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
     
  Singapore  

100  

IBM Slovensko spol s.r.o.   
     
  Slovak Republic  

100  

IBM Slovenija d.o.o.   
     
  Slovenia  

100  

IBM Global Financing South Africa (Pty) Ltd  
     
  South Africa  

100  

IBM South Africa (Pty) Ltd.   
     
  South Africa  

100  

IBM Global Financing Espa a, S.L.U.   
     
  Spain  

100  

IBM Global Services Espa a, S.A.   
     
  Spain  

100  

International Business Machines, S.A.   
     
  Spain  

100  

IBM Global Financing Sweden AB  
     
  Sweden  

100  

IBM Svenska Aktiebolag  
     
  Sweden  

100  

Company Name

State or country of 
incorporation or organization    
     
   Voting percent owned directly or indirectly by registrant    

IBM Global Financing Schweiz GmbH  
     
  Switzerland  

100  

IBM Schweiz AG IBM Suisse SA IBM Svizzera SA IBM Switzerland Ltd  
     
  Switzerland  

100  

IBM Taiwan Corporation  
     
  Taiwan  

100  

IBM Tanzania Limited  
     
  Tanzania  

100  

IBM Capital (Thailand) Company Limited  
     
  Thailand  

100  

IBM Thailand Company Limited  
     
  Thailand  

100  

IBM Tunisie  
     
  Tunisia  

100  

IBM (International Business Machines) Turk Limited Sirketi  
     
  Turkey  

100  

Technology Products and Services Limited  
     
  Uganda  

100  

IBM Ukraine  
     
  Ukraine  

100  

IBM Middle East FZ LLC  
     
  United Arab Emirates  

100  

IBM United Kingdom Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

IBM United Kingdom Asset Leasing Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

IBM United Kingdom Financial Services Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

IBM del Uruguay, S.A.   
     
  Uruguay  

100  

IBM Credit LLC  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM International Group Capital LLC  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM International Foundation  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM World Trade Corporation  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

Softlayer Technologies, Inc.   
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM de Venezuela, S.A.   
     
  Venezuela  

100  

IBM Vietnam Company  
     
  Vietnam  

100  

International Business Machines Zambia Limited  
     
  Zambia  

100  

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 21   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 a2233835zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-77235, 33-29022, 33-33458,
33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815, 333-01411, 33-52931, 33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305, 333-41813, 333-44981, 333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751,
333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424, 333-33692, 333-36510, 333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327, 333-148964, 333-170559, 333-171968, 333-76914 and
333-196722) and Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 333-03763, 333-27669, 333-32690, 333-101034, 333-212685 and 333-212685-01) of International Business Machines Corporation of our report
dated February 27, 2018 relating to the consolidated financial statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2017 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 27, 2018 relating to the
financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

  /s/
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 
New York, New York 
February 27, 2018   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 9
 a2233835zex-24_1.htm
 EX-24.1

Exhibit 24.1   
     
   POWER OF ATTORNEY OF VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and, Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, and Christina M. Montgomery, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Virginia M. Rometty           

Virginia M. Rometty           

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief   Executive Officer              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF JAMES J. KAVANAUGH   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ James J.   Kavanaugh           

James J. Kavanaugh           

Senior Vice   President and Chief Financial Officer              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF ROBERT F. DEL BENE   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Vice President and Controller of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report    for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, James J. Kavanaugh , Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Robert F. Del   Bene           

Robert F. Del Bene           

Vice President and   Controller              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Kenneth I.   Chenault           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Michael L. Eskew           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ David N. Farr           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Mark Fields           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Alex Gorsky           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Shirley Ann Jackson           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Andrew N. Liveris           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington,    D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ W. James McNerney, Jr.           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Hutham S. Olayan           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ James W. Owens           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Joseph R. Swedish           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Sidney Taurel           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Peter R. Voser           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
   KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned    Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2017 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, James J. Kavanaugh, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof. 
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 27  th  day of February 2018. 

/s/ Frederick H. Waddell           

Director              

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 10
 a2233835zex-24_2.htm
 EX-24.2

Exhibit 24.2   
     
   RESOLUTION REGARDING   
     
   FILING OF THE COMPANY S 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K   
     
  RESOLVED, that the Company s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K be, and hereby is, approved and that the Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K and to make such additions, supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion may be necessary or desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies.  

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a2233835zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS 
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Virginia M. Rometty, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.    

Date:
February 27, 2018   

/s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a2233835zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
James J. Kavanaugh, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.    

Date:
February 27, 2018   

/s/ JAMES J. KAVANAUGH 

James J. Kavanaugh 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a2233835zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In
connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2017, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350,
as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
February 27, 2018  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a2233835zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2017, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ JAMES J. KAVANAUGH 

James J. Kavanaugh 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
February 27, 2018  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 ibm-20171231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 ibm-20171231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 ibm-20171231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 ibm-20171231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 19
 ibm-20171231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 ibm-20171231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

