<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20171002_10-K_edgar_data_1059272_0001059272-17-000037_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>9186437</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>183342</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3389701</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1703949</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2678460</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1133101</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>49</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001059272-17-000037.hdr.sgml : 20171002
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170929173536
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001059272-17-000037
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		95
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20170701
FILED AS OF DATE:		20171002
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170929

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			bebe stores, inc.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001059272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WOMEN'S, MISSES', AND JUNIORS OUTERWEAR [2330]
		IRS NUMBER:				942450490
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0702

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-24395
		FILM NUMBER:		171112524

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		400 VALLEY DR
		CITY:			BRISBANE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94005
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4157153900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		400 VALLEY DR
		CITY:			BRISBANE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94005

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BEBE STORES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980422

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BABE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980407

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001059272-17-000037.txt : 20171002

10-K
 1
 bebe2017-07x0110xk.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 
  x   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the Fiscal Year Ended   July 1, 2017    
  OR 
  o   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  Commission File Number 0-24395 

bebe stores, inc. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                   California 
      
    94-2450490 
      (State or Jurisdiction of 
  Incorporation or Organization) 
      
    (IRS Employer 
  Identification Number) 

400 Valley Drive 
  Brisbane, California 94005 
  (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) 
  Telephone: (415) 715-3900 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share 
  (Title of class) 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes    o     No    x 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes    o     No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes    o      No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes    x    No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a small reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act                           Large accelerated filer 
      
    o 
       
    Accelerated filer 
      
    o 
      Non-accelerated filer 
      
        (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
       
    Smaller reporting company 
      
    x 

Emerging growth company 
      
    o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standard provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act)    Yes    o    No    x 
  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $21,000,000 as of December 31, 2016, the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based upon the closing sale price per share of $5.09 of the registrant s Common Stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market on such date. Shares of Common Stock held by each executive officer and director and by each person who owns 10% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily conclusive for other purposes. 
  As of August 31, 2017 8,096,090 shares of Common Stock, $0.001 per share par value, of the registrant were outstanding. 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III incorporates information by reference from the definitive Proxy Statement for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed with the Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the registrant s fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K. 

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words such as  expects,   anticipates,   intends,   plans,   believes,   estimates,   thinks  and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expected results of operations, capital expenditures and store openings and closings and our product developments. Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, we cannot assure you that our goals will be achieved. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this Form 10-K, and we assume no obligation to update or revise them or provide reasons why actual results may differ. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, our ability to respond to changing fashion trends, obtain raw materials and find manufacturing facilities, attract and retain key management personnel, develop new concepts, successfully open future stores, successfully manage our online business, maintain and protect information technology, respond effectively to competitive pressures in the apparel industry and adverse economic conditions and protect our intellectual property, as well as declines in comparable store sales performance, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel and/or other factors discussed in  Risk Factors  and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 
  PART I 
   
  ITEM 1.    BUSINESS 
   
  General 
  Historically, we designed, developed and produced a distinctive line of contemporary women s apparel and accessories that is unique, sophisticated and timelessly sexy. We were founded by Manny Mashouf, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. We opened our first store in San Francisco, California in 1976, which was also the year we incorporated in California. We marketed our products under the bebe and BEBE SPORT brand names through our retail stores, the significant majority of which were bebe stores, including an on-line store at www.bebe.com, and as many as 39 bebe outlet stores. The 82 international licensees  operated stores in 22 countries and, pursuant to our product licensing, through certain select domestic and international retailers.  
   
  Operating Strategy 
    
  Strategic Partnership  
    
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we expanded upon our strategic joint venture arrangement entered into during fiscal 2016, and have closed all of our retail stores, sold our inventory, furnishings, trade fixtures, equipment, improvements in real property, purchase orders related to our website and international wholesale business and are committed to selling our Los Angeles Design Studio. Under this partnership, bebe contributed all of its trademarks, trademark license arrangements and related intellectual property, including domain names, social media accounts and agreements with certain of its international distributors to its joint venture BB Brand Holdings LLC (the  Joint Venture ). Our partner in the venture, Bluestar Alliance, LLC ( Bluestar ) continues to leverage its existing brand management organization and infrastructure to develop a wholesale domestic and international lifestyle licensing business for the Joint Venture and will manage its day-to-day operations. Going forward, the Joint Venture will aggressively pursue a licensing strategy designed to capitalize on the value of our brand in all categories and channels on a global scale. We expect the Joint Venture to generate long-term, committed royalties from prospective licensees of the bebe brand name.  
    
  Historical 
    
  Historically, our objective has been to satisfy the fashion needs of the confident, modern woman. The principal elements of our operating strategy to achieve this objective were as follows: 
    
  1. Provide distinctive fashion throughout a broad product line to fulfill everyday wardrobe needs across a variety of occasions.   Our designers and merchandisers were inspired by global fashion trends. They interpreted contemporary designs, colors and fabrications into our products to address the lifestyle needs of our customer. Our in-house design team allowed us to react quickly to fashion trends, bringing newness into the merchandise mix to complement our core assortment.  
    
  2. Vertically integrate design, production, merchandising and retail functions.   Our vertical integration for the majority of our bebe branded product enabled us to respond quickly to changing fashion trends, reduced risk of excess inventory and produced distinctive quality merchandise. 

3 

3. Manage merchandise mix.   Our approach to merchandising and proactive inventory management was critical to our success. By actively monitoring sell-through rates and the mix of categories and products in our stores, we were better able to respond to emerging trends in a timely manner thereby better maximizing sales opportunities. 
    
  4. Operate an omni-channel strategy to engage our customer wherever she shops.   Our omni-channel strategy allowed our customer to shop in stores, on-line and via mobile devices and enhanced our ability to compete effectively against a variety of retail formats. 
    
  5. Control distribution of merchandise.   We distributed our merchandise, other than licensed products, through company owned stores including on-line. This distribution strategy enabled us to control pricing, flow of goods, visual presentation and customer experience. We sought to ensure brand equity through this exclusive distribution. During fiscal 2017, through the Joint Venture, we saw an expansion of the use of the bebe brand name to new products, new geographies, and new domestic channels. Licensed products that will be sold through new domestic channels were complementary to existing bebe products.  
    
  6. Enhance brand image.   We attracted customers through edgy, high-impact, visual advertising campaigns using print, outdoor, in-store, direct mail and e-mail communication vehicles. We also offered a line of merchandise branded with the distinctive bebe logo to increase brand awareness. Our marketing campaign was aligned across traditional and new media and focused on messaging that speaks to the confident bebe woman. 
   
  Seasonality 
  Our business was seasonal in nature, with sales peaking during the second fiscal quarter, primarily during the holiday season in November and December. During each of fiscal   2017   and   2016  , the second fiscal quarter accounted for approximately 31% of our annual net sales. 
   
  Competition 
  The retail and apparel industries are highly competitive and are characterized by low barriers to entry. We expect competition in such markets, which we are exposed to via the Joint Venture to increase. The primary competitive factors in these markets are: brand name recognition and appeal, sourcing, product styling, product quality, product presentation, product pricing, timeliness of product delivery, store ambiance, customer service and convenience. 
   
  Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights 
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we contributed all of our intellectual property, including trademark registrations and applications that were filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and other countries for bebe, BEBE SPORT and related marks for many of our core classifications including retail store services, apparel, handbags, jewelry, footwear, fragrance and eyewear and certain design prints and patterns registered with the U.S. Copyright Office, to the Joint Venture. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 we also transferred the www.bebe.com domain name, our social media accounts and our international wholesale agreements to the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture in turn intends to license them to one or more third parties. 
   
  Information Services and Technology 
  We are committed to utilizing technology to enhance our competitive position. Our information systems provide data to the entire enterprise to help improve efficiency, visibility and actionable decision making. The core business systems, which consist of both purchased and internally developed software, are accessed over a company-wide network providing employees with access to key business applications. 
  Our investments in information systems for fiscal 2017 continued to focus on our digital channels, stores, supply chain, central corporate systems and infrastructure. 
   
  Employees 
  As of   July 1, 2017  , we had 83 employees. Our total employees decreased by approximately 96.8% as compared to the prior fiscal year end reflecting the shutdown of operations. Our employees are not represented by any labor union, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. 
  
   4 

Available Information 
  We make available on our website,   www.bebe.com  , under  Investor Relations,  free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). 
  Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Policy for Reporting Violations and Complaints, Corporate Governance Principles and Practices for the Board of Directors, and Board of Directors  Committee Charters are also available on our website, under  Corporate Governance.  Any amendments to or waivers from our Code of Ethics will also be available on our website. Please note that information contained in our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be, part of this report. 
  
   5 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  Executive Officers and Directors 
  The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers and directors as of September 1, 2017:    
                       Name 
    Age 

Position 
      Manny Mashouf (1) 
    79 

Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board 
      Brett Brewer(2)(4)* 
    45 

Director 
      Corrado Federico(3)(4) 
    76 

Director 
      Seth Johnson(2)(3)*(4)(   ) 
    63 

Director 
      Robert Galvin(2)*(3)(   ) 
    58 

Director 
      Walter Parks (1) 
    58 

President, Chief Operating Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer 

(1) 
    Executive Officer. 
              (2) 
    Member, Audit Committee. 
              (3) 
    Member, Compensation and Management Development Committee. 
              (4) 
    Member, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 
              (*)   
    Chairman of the Committee. 
              ( ) 
    Financial Expert 
     Manny Mashouf   founded bebe stores, inc. and has served as Chairman of the Board since our incorporation in 1976. Mr. Mashouf became the Chief Executive Officer beginning February 2016. Prior to that Mr. Mashouf served as our Chief Executive Officer from 1976 to February 2004 and again from January 2009 to January 2013. Mr. Mashouf is the uncle of Hamid Mashouf, our Chief Information Officer. 
  Brett Brewer   has served as a director since July 2014. Mr. Brewer is an Internet entrepreneur who has built, operated and sold Internet media companies. In 1998, Mr. Brewer co-founded Intermix Media, which launched several on-line businesses including Myspace.com, Skilljam.com and Alena.com. He took Intermix public in 1999 and the company was sold to NewsCorp in October 2005. Mr. Brewer currently serves as the co-founder and Managing Director of CrossCut Ventures. Mr. Brewer also serves as Vice Chairman and a Director of Adknowledge.com, a behavioral-based advertising technology company. As well, he serves on the board of directors of Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc.  In addition, Mr. Brewer is on the board of After School All-Stars, a non-profit organization that provides after school programs for kids. From 2007 to 2009, he served on the Board of Transworld Entertainment, a specialty music and video retailer with a national mall-based store portfolio. From 2004 to 2009, Mr. Brewer was a board member of Bizworld, a non-profit organization that teaches children about business, entrepreneurship and money management through project-based learning.  
  Corrado Federico   has served as a director since November 1996. From approximately 1997 through 2008, Mr. Federico served on the board of directors for Hot Topic, a retail clothing company. Mr. Federico was President of Solaris Properties until December 2008 and has served as the President of Corado, Inc., a land development firm, since 1991. From 1986 to 1991, Mr. Federico held the position of President and Chief Executive Officer of Esprit de Corp, Inc., a wholesaler and retailer of junior and children s apparel, footwear and accessories. 
  Seth Johnson   has served as director since July 2014.  Mr. Johnson has served on the board of directors of Tilly's, Inc. since 2011 and has served on the board of directors of Christopher   Banks since June 2016.  From 2010 to 2013, Mr. Johnson served on the board of directors of True Religion Apparel.  Mr. Johnson has also served on the boards of Pacific Sunwear, DEI Holdings, Inc., and Abercrombie   Fitch.  In addition, Mr. Johnson was an Instructor of Business at Chapman University from 2007 through 2009, has served as Chief Executive Officer of Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. from 2005 through 2006, Chief Operating Officer of Abercrombie   Fitch from 1999 through 2004, and Chief Financial Officer of Abercrombie   Fitch from 1992 through 1998. 
  Robert Galvin   has served as a director since November 2014. Mr. Galvin also serves on the board of directors for three retail companies, Lands End, Cherokee and Big 5 Sporting Goods. Mr. Galvin has served with Big 5 Sporting Goods since July 2015, with Lands End, a catalogue and on-line focused business, since May 2014 and with Cherokee since May 2012. Mr. Galvin s retail experience also includes executive roles with numerous fashion and retail companies, including as Chief Executive Officer for Elie Tahari in 2013, President of Camuto Group from 2007 through 2011, Chief Operating Officer of  
  
   6 

Sports Brands International from 2003 through 2007 and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer for Nine West Group from 1995 through 1999. Mr. Galvin also was a partner with the accounting firm of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 
    
  Walter Parks   has served as President, COO, and interim CFO since February 2016. Prior to rejoining bebe in February 2016, Walter served as bebe's Chief Operating Officer from September 2006 and Chief Financial Officer from December 2003 to May 2013. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Parks served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of The Wet Seal, Inc. From 1999 to 2001, Mr. Parks served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of Restoration Hardware, Inc. From 1997 to 1999, Mr. Parks served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer for Ann Taylor Stores Corporation, and in various other positions since joining that company in 1988. 

7 

ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS 
  Our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. In addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 
  Factors that might cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements discussed elsewhere in this report, as well as affect our ability to achieve our financial and other goals, include, but are not limited to, the following: 
    
  Risks Related to Our Business 
    
  1. The success of our business depends in large part on the ability of the Joint Venture s licensees to identify fashion trends as well as to react to changing customer demand in a timely manner and to generate positive cash from its operations as a result.  
  Our future success depends, in part, upon the ability of the Joint Venture s licensees to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing customer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner. The specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in customer preferences directed by trends and fashions. If they miscalculate customers  product preferences or the demand for their products, they may be faced with excess inventory, which historically has resulted in markdowns and/or write-offs of raw materials as well as finished goods, which could impair their profitability, and may do so in the future. Similarly, any failure on their part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing customer demands and fashion trends will adversely affect our business. Starting in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 and expanding in fiscal 2017, the Company entered into the Joint Venture and shifted its strategy, such that we have closed all of our retail stores, sold our merchandise, inventory, furnishings, trade fixtures, equipment, improvements in real property, purchase orders related to our website and international wholesale business and are committed to selling our Los Angeles Design Studio. Further, bebe has contributed all of its trademarks, trademark license arrangements and related intellectual property to the Joint Venture, including domain names, social media accounts and agreements with certain of its international distributors to the Joint Venture.   
  Our strategic focus for fiscal 2018 and the years to come is to continue to focus on discretionary spending, restructure our operations and based on the success of initiatives in the Joint Venture, collect revenue from its licensing arrangements. The inability to generate positive cash flow from such operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial conditions. In addition, if additional financing is needed, we may not be able to secure such financing on favorable terms, or at all. 
    
  2. Our auditors have made reference to the substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue as a going concern.  
  Our financial statements included with this Annual Report for the year ended July 1, 2017 have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. Our auditors have made reference to the substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern in their audit report on our audited financial statements for the year ended July 1, 2017. Because we have been issued an opinion by our auditors that substantial doubt exists as to whether the Company can continue as a going concern, it may be more difficult for the Company to attract investors. Since our auditors have raised a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, this typically results greater difficulty to obtain financing than businesses that do not have a qualified auditors opinion. Additionally, any loans we might obtain may be on less advantageous terms. Our future is dependent upon our ability to obtain funding and upon future profitable operations from our business. We plan to seek additional funds through the sale of our remaining real estate assets. If we are unable to sell these assets on favorable terms, or at all, we may be unable to continue as a going concern.  As a result, you may be investing in a company that will not have the funds necessary to continue as a going concern. If we are not able to achieve sufficient revenues or find funding to cover our expenses, then we likely will be forced to cease operations and investors may lose their entire investment. 
    
  3. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand, image and reputation. 
  Our ability to maintain our brand image and reputation is integral to our business via the licensing arrangement with the Joint Venture as well as the implementation of strategies to expand such efforts. Maintaining, promoting and growing our brand will depend largely on the success of the Joint Venture s design, merchandising and marketing efforts and its ability to provide a consistent, high-quality client experience. In addition, while our brand is mature, the success depends on our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers to shop our brand. Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives for our brand. In addition, failure to achieve consistent, positive performance or the receipt of any negative publicity could adversely impact our brand and the brand loyalty of our customers, which would adversely impact our business via the Joint Venture.  

8 

4. We face significant competition in the retail and apparel industries, which could harm our business. 
  The retail and apparel industries are highly competitive and are characterized by low barriers to entry. We expect competition in these markets to increase. The primary competitive factors in our markets are: brand name recognition and appeal, sourcing, product styling, quality, presentation and pricing, timeliness of product development and delivery, store ambiance, customer service and convenience. The Joint Venture competes with traditional department stores, specialty store retailers, lower price point retailers, business-to-consumer websites, off-price retailers and direct marketers for, among other things, raw materials, market share, retail space, finished goods, sourcing and personnel. Because many of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial, distribution and marketing resources than the Joint Venture or maintain comparatively lower cost of operations, it may lack the resources to effectively compete with them. If the Joint Venture fails to remain competitive in any way, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  
    
  5. Our business has recently undergone significant changes, including management, personnel and business changes. If we do not effectively and successfully adapt to these changes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
  As we realign our business around the initiatives of the Joint Venture, we continue to make substantial personnel and operational changes in an effort to streamline our business and control costs. These significant changes have created additional pressures on existing personnel, and we have been working to adapt to operating our business in a manner that differs meaningfully from prior periods. We cannot assure that these changes will lead to the desired improvement in our business and results of operations. If we do not effectively and successfully adapt to these changes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
    
  6. General economic conditions, including increases in energy and commodity prices, that are largely out of our control, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 
  The demand for bebe products is influenced by national and local economic factors that may affect consumer spending or buying habits. Factors that could adversely affect the demand for our products include recessionary economic cycles, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, deflation, increases in commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws. A decline in economic conditions could also result in limitations on the prices the Joint Venture s licensees can charge for bebe products, either of which could adversely affect our business. We can provide no assurance that demand for bebe products will not be adversely affected by national or local economic conditions, thereby harming our business.  
    
  7. Our business could be adversely impacted by unfavorable international political conditions. 
  Our sales and operating results are, and will continue to be, affected by international social, political, legal and economic conditions. In particular, our business could be adversely impacted by instability or changes resulting in the disruption of trade with the countries in which our contractors, suppliers, licensees or customers are located, significant fluctuations in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds, or additional trade restrictions imposed by the United States and other foreign governments. We can provide no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by such international events. 
       
  In addition, trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes and customs restrictions could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business. We also purchase a substantial amount of our raw materials from China, and our business and operating results may be affected by changes in the political, social or economic environment in China. 
    
  8. Our ability to conduct business could be negatively impacted by the effects of natural disasters, war, terrorism, public health concerns or other catastrophes. 
  We operate a corporate office in Brisbane, California, a distribution facility in Benicia, California, a design studio in Los Angeles, California and a distribution facility in Hong Kong. Any serious disruption at these facilities whether due to construction, relocation, fire, flood, earthquake, terrorist acts or otherwise could harm our business. Natural disasters, extreme weather and public health concerns, including severe infectious diseases, could impact our ability to open and run our corporate offices, distribution center, stores and other operations in affected areas and/or negatively impact our foreign sourcing offices and the operations of our vendors. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends, in part, on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. Lower client traffic due to the effect of natural disasters or extreme weather, security concerns, war or the threat of war and public health concerns could result in decreased sales that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States and world-wide could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impact of these events depends, in part, upon the effectiveness of our disaster preparedness and response planning as well as business continuity planning. However, we cannot be certain that our plans will be adequate or implemented properly in the event of an actual  
  
   9 

disaster or other catastrophic situation. In addition, although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage will be sufficient or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us. 
    
  9. If we, through our interest in the Joint Venture, are not able to protect our intellectual property our business may be harmed  . 
  Although we and the Joint Venture take actions to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that others will not imitate our products or infringe upon our intellectual property rights. In addition, we cannot assure that others will not resist or seek to block the sale of our products as infringements of their trademark and proprietary rights. 
       
  Historically, we have sought to register our trademarks domestically and internationally and the Joint Venture will continue to do so in the future. Obstacles may exist that may prevent the Joint Venture from obtaining a trademark for the bebe and BEBE SPORT brand names or related names. The Joint Venture may not be able to register certain trademarks, purchase the right or obtain a license to use these names or related names on commercially reasonable terms. If the Joint Venture fails to obtain trademarks of, or ownership or license of the requisite rights, it would limit the ability to expand the business under the bebe brand. 
       
  In some jurisdictions, despite successful registration of bebe's trademarks, third parties may allege infringement and bring actions against us and or the Joint Venture. In addition, if our licensees fail to use the bebe intellectual property correctly, the reputation and value associated with the trademarks may be diluted. Furthermore, if we or the Joint Venture do not demonstrate use of our trademarks, our trademark rights may lapse over time. 
    
  In addition, we face the potential of receiving claims that the technology we use or license infringes on another s proprietary rights. In certain circumstances, we may be subject to having to defend ourselves from such claims and/or be subject to unanticipated license fees or the necessity to transition away from technology we are using or abandon such use altogether. 
    
  10. Our business may be negatively impacted by any failure to comply with regulatory requirements. 
  As a public company, we are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC and The NASDAQ Capital Market. In addition, we are subject to numerous domestic and foreign laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, competition, privacy, consumer protection, credit cards, import/export and anti-corruption, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act. Our employees, subcontractors, vendors and suppliers could take actions that violate these requirements and/or our compliance policies and procedures, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. Regulatory developments regarding the use of  conflict minerals,  certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, could affect the sourcing and availability of raw materials used by suppliers and subject us to costs associated with the relevant regulations, including for diligence pertaining to the presence of any conflict minerals used in our products, possible changes to products, processes or sources of our inputs and reporting requirements. 
    
  11. There are litigation and other claims against us from time to time, which could distract management from our business activities and could lead to adverse consequences to our business and financial condition. 
  We are involved from time to time with litigation and other claims against us. Often these cases can raise complex factual and legal issues, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and which could require significant management time. Although we do not currently believe that the outcome of any current litigation or claim against us will have a material adverse effect on our overall financial condition, we have, in the past, incurred unexpected expense in connection with litigation matters. In the future, adverse settlements, judgments or resolutions may negatively impact our business. Injunctions against us could have an adverse effect on our business by requiring us to do, or prohibiting us from engaging in, certain activities. We may in the future be the target of material litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert our management s attention and resources. 
    
  12. We are subject to cyber-security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. 
  We currently support the business of the Joint Venture via a transition services agreement (which is expected to terminate October 31, 2017), which involves the storage and transmission of customers  personal information, consumer preferences and credit card information. We also facilitate the Joint Venture s use mobile devices, social networking and other on-line activities to connect with our customers. If we experience a significant data security breach or fail to detect and appropriately respond to a significant data security breach, we or the Joint Venture could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation, and our business could be adversely affected. For example, in November 2014, we  
  
   10 

detected suspicious activity on computers that operate the payment processing system for our stores, which appeared to be limited to data from payment cards swiped in the United States and its territories between November 8, 2014 and November 26, 2014. The data may have included cardholder name, account number, expiration date and verification codes, although we have no indication of fraudulent charges to date. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer future breaches of the portion of our network that handles payment card data, with further payment card and client information being stolen. These sorts of breaches might cause bebe customers to lose confidence in our or the Joint Venture s ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to stop shopping with bebe altogether. The loss of confidence from a significant data security breach involving our employees could also hurt our reputation and adversely affect our business and financial results. 
    
  13. The Joint Venture relies on information technology to help manage its operations and our e-commerce store, the disruption of which could adversely impact our business. 
  We currently assist the Joint Venture with various information systems, which it relies on to help manage its operations and regularly assess the cost-benefit analysis associated with making additional investments to upgrade, enhance or replace such systems. If at any time we experience any disruptions that impact the Joint Venture s information systems we could experience a material adverse impact on our business. 
    
  14. We are responsible for maintaining the privacy of personally identifiable information of our customers. 
  Through our sale transactions, loyalty programs and other methods, we obtained personally identifiable information about our customers which is subject to federal, state and international privacy laws. These laws are constantly changing. If we fail to comply with these laws, we may be subject to fines, penalties or other adverse actions. We are highly dependent on the use of credit cards to complete sale transactions through our websites, and if we fail to comply with Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we may become subject to limitations on our ability to accept credit cards. Moreover, third parties may seek to access this information through improper means such as computer hacking, malware and viruses. Any incidents involving unauthorized access or improper use of our customers  personally identifiable information could damage our reputation and brand and result in legal or regulatory action against us.   
    
  Risks Related to Our Common Stock 
    
  1. Because Manny Mashouf beneficially owns a substantial portion of the outstanding shares, other shareholders have limited ability to influence corporate matters. 
  As of July 1, 2017, Manny Mashouf, our CEO and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 58.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, he has the ability to control our management and affairs and substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of any significant transaction. He also has the ability to control our management and business affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of common stock, even if such a transaction would benefit other shareholders. In addition, he could also sell his shares at any time, in open market transactions, registered offerings or otherwise and such a sale could negatively impact our share price. 
    
  2. Our stock price could fluctuate substantially for reasons outside of our control. 
  Our common stock is quoted on The NASDAQ Capital Market, which has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect our stock price without regard to our financial performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and comparable sales; announcements by other apparel, accessory, music and gift item retailers; the trading volume of our stock; changes in estimates of our performance by securities analysts; litigation; overall economic and political conditions, including the global economic downturn; the condition of the financial markets, including the credit crisis; and other events or factors outside of our control could cause our stock price to fluctuate substantially. 
    
  3. Our failure to meet the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market could result in a delisting of our common stock. 
  If we fail to satisfy the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market, such as the corporate governance requirements or the minimum closing bid price requirement, NASDAQ may take steps to de-list our common stock. Such a delisting would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and would impair your ability to sell or purchase our common stock when you wish to do so. In the event of a delisting, we would expect to seek to take actions to restore our compliance with NASDAQ s listing requirements, but we can provide no assurance that any such action taken by us would allow our common stock to become listed again, stabilize the market price or improve the liquidity of our common  
  
   11 

stock, prevent our common stock from dropping below the NASDAQ minimum bid price requirement or prevent future non-compliance with NASDAQ s listing requirements. 
    
  4. If we sell shares of our common stock in the future, shareholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline. 
  We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our shareholders would experience immediate dilution. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common shareholders would experience additional dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline. 

ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  None. 
   
  ITEM 2.        PROPERTIES 
  Our main corporate headquarters are located in a leased facility in Brisbane, California. The Brisbane facility is approximately 35,000 square feet and housed administrative offices, planning operations and store support services. The lease expires in April 2020. As of July 1, 2017 we owned our distribution center in Benicia, California consisting of approximately 240,000 square feet of which the company uses approximately 144,000 square feet. We also owned our 50,000 square foot design studio and production facility in Los Angeles, California that houses our design, merchandising and production activities. We also owned two condominium units in Los Angeles, California for use as short-term executive accommodations with approximately 3,400 total square footage. 
    
  During the first fiscal quarter of 2018, we have sold our Benicia property and one of our condominiums. We have entered into a month to month lease for the Benicia property through December 31, 2017. 
   
  ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  As of the date of this filing, we are involved in ongoing legal proceedings as described below.  
  A former employee filed a complaint against the Company on November 2, 2010, in the Superior Court of California, San Bernardino County (Case No. CIVRS1011823) alleging failure to pay wages, failure to provide meal and rest periods, and other violations of the California Labor Code and Business   Professions Code  17200   et. seq  .  The plaintiff purported to bring the action on behalf of current and former California bebe stylists and sales associates who are similarly situated.  The complaint sought damages, civil penalties, and injunctive relief among other remedies.  In June 2016, the parties entered into a settlement agreement conditioned upon final Court approval.   In August 2017, the Court preliminarily approved the class action settlement. The parties are in the process of the administration of the settlement with the class members.  The Company believes the settlement amounts, accrued in Q4 of fiscal 2017, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.   
    
  A customer served the Company with a complaint on January 31, 2014, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (Civil Action No. C14-267 DMR) alleging various violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (47 U.S.C.   227   et seq  .) and violations of California s unfair competition law (California Business and Professions Code    17200,   et seq  .) stemming from an alleged failure to obtain customer consent prior to sending text messages. The plaintiff purported to bring the action on behalf of others similarly situated.  The complaint sought damages and injunctive relief among other remedies. A companion proceeding, previously reported, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (Civil Action No. 3:14-CV-01968)) was consolidated with this action.   In April 2016, the parties entered into a settlement agreement conditioned upon final Court approval.  In July 2017, the Court preliminarily approved the class action settlement. The parties are in the process of the administration of the settlement with the class members. The Company believes the settlement amounts, accrued in Q3 of fiscal 2017, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
    
  The Company is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Regarding all matters referenced herein, the Company intends to vigorously defend itself and has accrued estimated amounts of liability where required, appropriate and determinable. Any such estimates may be revised as further information becomes  
  
   12 

available. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain and as such the Company cannot assure that it will be able to successfully defend itself in these proceedings or that any amounts accrued are sufficient.   
   
  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
   
  PART II 
   
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol  BEBE.  The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock for each quarterly period within the two years ended   July 1, 2017  , as reported by Nasdaq:  

As of August 31, 2017, the number of holders of record of our common stock was 40 and the number of beneficial holders of our common stock was approximately 3,874. 
  Declaration and payment of dividends is within the sole discretion of our board of directors, subject to limitations imposed by California law and compliance with our credit agreement and will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and such other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. We did not declare any dividends during fiscal 2017 or in fiscal 2016. 
    
  Stock Performance Graph 
  The graph below compares the percentage changes in our cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five-year period ended June 30, 2017, with (i) the cumulative total return of the S   P 500 Index and (ii) the S   P Apparel, Accessories   Luxury Goods Index. The total shareholder return for our common stock assumes quarterly reinvestment of dividends. 
  
   13 

14 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward looking statements, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth under  Risks Factors  under Item 1A of this report. 

Overview 
  Historically, we designed, developed and produced a distinctive line of contemporary women s apparel and accessories that is unique, sophisticated and timelessly sexy. We were founded by Manny Mashouf, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. We opened our first store in San Francisco, California in 1976, which was also the year we incorporated in California. We marketed our products under the bebe and BEBE SPORT brand names through our retail stores, the significant majority of which were bebe stores, including an on-line store at www.bebe.com, and also through bebe outlet stores. The 82 international licensees  operated stores in 22 countries and, pursuant to our product licensing, through certain select domestic and international retailers.  
    
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 we closed all of our stores and sold all remaining finished goods inventory to Global Brands Group ("GBG"). We also transferred the remainder of our licenses and intellectual property including the URL www.bebe.com to the Joint Venture of which we own 50% and account for under the equity method. All international licensee agreements were also transferred to the Joint Venture. We entered into a transition services agreement with GBG to provide certain transitional services for a period not to extend beyond October 31, 2017. 
  Fiscal   2017   financial highlights include the following: 

Loss from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended   July 1, 2017   was   $38.3 million  , or   $4.76   per share on a diluted basis, compared to loss from continuing operations of   $17.9 million   or   $2.24   per share on a diluted basis, in the prior year. 
      Our strategic focus for fiscal 2018 is to complete the terms of the transition services agreement in place with GBG which we anticipate to be completed by the end of 2017 calendar year. After which bebe will maintain its 50% investment in the Joint Venture. 
   
  Critical Accounting Policies 
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  The preparation of these financial statements requires the appropriate application of certain accounting policies, many of which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events and their impact on amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Since future events and their impact cannot be determined with certainty, the actual results will inevitably differ from our estimates. Such differences could be material to the financial statements. We believe our application of accounting policies, and the estimates inherently required therein, are reasonable. We reevaluate these accounting policies and estimates and make adjustments when facts and circumstances dictate a change. Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 
  We have identified certain critical accounting policies, which are described below. 
  Investments.   We use the equity method to account for our investment in the Joint Venture because we have the ability to exercise significant influence but not control. We record our share of earnings as reported by the Joint Venture as earnings in equity-method investment on the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss. The total of our investments in the Joint Venture are recorded in Other Assets on the consolidated balance sheets. 
  
   15 

Income Taxes.   We account for income taxes using an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We are subject to periodic audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign, state and local taxing authorities. These audits may challenge certain of our tax positions such as the timing and amount of income and deductions and the allocation of taxable income to various tax jurisdictions. We evaluate our tax positions and establish liabilities in accordance with applicable accounting guidance on uncertainty in income taxes. To the extent that our estimates change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. We regularly asses the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including recent year s operational results which is objectively verifiable evidence. As of   July 1, 2017  , we continue to conclude that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will not be realized, and as such we maintained a full valuation allowance. Our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the mix and level of earnings, changes in the expected outcome of audits or changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance. 
  Lease accounting.   We lease office space under an operating lease. We recognize the related rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We record the difference between the recognized rent expense and the amounts paid as deferred rent. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  The impact of recent accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.  
   
  Results of Operations 
  Our fiscal year ends on the first Saturday on or after June 30. Fiscal year 2017 and 2016 each had 52 weeks. 
  The following table sets forth certain key performance indicators from continuing operations: 

Fiscal Years Ended   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016    
  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.   Selling, general and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which consists of corporate overhead costs and costs to operate our distribution center, decreased to   $41.8 million   during fiscal   2017   from   $46.5 million   in fiscal   2016  , a decrease of   $4.8 million  , or   10.2%  .  Included in 2017 was $11.7 million in long-lived asset impairment charges related to fixed assets at the company's corporate offices and distribution center. This was offset by decreased compensation and benefit costs of $6.5 million, reduced depreciation of $2.3 million and $6.0 million in fees charged in connection with the Transition Services Agreement. All of the net reductions were the effect of corporate restructuring activities undertaken during fiscal 2017. 
  Gain on sale of assets, net.   We recorded a net gain of $31.7 million in fiscal 2016 related to the sale of an almost 50% ownership interest in our trademarks, trade names and certain other intellectual property to Bluestar LLC. The gain represents proceeds received of $35 million, which was offset by transaction costs totaling $2.5 million and the carrying value of assets sold totaling $0.8 million.  
  Interest and Other Income (Loss), Net.   We recorded other income of   $0.4 million  , net during fiscal   2017   as compared to a loss of   $3.3 million   in fiscal   2016  . The loss in fiscal 2016 was the result of a $3.6 million loss on the sale of ARS.  
  
   16 

Provision for Income Taxes.   Our effective tax rate was   0.0%   for fiscal   2017   as compared to   0.0%   for fiscal   2016  . The rate for both fiscal 2017 and 2016 reflected the continuing impact of maintaining a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. In future years, we expect the continuing impact of maintaining a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to result in a near 0% effective tax rate. 
  Discontinued Operations  . In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we discontinued our retail operations and closed all of our stores. During the first two quarters of fiscal 2018 we are providing transition services to a third party who licensed the   www.bebe.com   URL beginning May 2, 2017 from the Joint Venture. In connection with our store closures we settled the remaining lease obligations related to the stores and terminated all employees directly related to the operation of our retail business. We continue to retain certain corporate office and distribution center employees who are providing administrative support to bebe or are providing the transition services. The results of the retail operations have been presented as a discontinued operation in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for all periods and are detailed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.  
  Loss from discontinued operations was   $100.6 million   for fiscal 2017 compared with   $9.5 million   for fiscal 2016. The   $91.1 million   increase is primarily due to $70.9 million in lease termination charges, $4.1 million in employee severance, and $11.1 million in incremental fixed asset impairment and disposal charges. 
   
  Seasonality of Business and Quarterly Results 
  Historically our business varied with general seasonal trends that are characteristic of the retail and apparel industries. As a result, we typically generated a higher percentage of our annual net sales and profitability in the second quarter of our fiscal year, which includes the holiday selling season, compared to other quarters of our fiscal year. If for any reason our sales were below seasonal norms during the second quarter of our fiscal year, our annual operating results would be negatively impacted. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. 
   
  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
    
  During fiscal 2017 as a result of continued operating losses, we shut down our retail operations. We have entered into an agreement to provide transition services to a third party that has taken over bebe's online and international licensee businesses. The agreement is scheduled to end October 31, 2017 and we are being paid a fee which we expect to cover substantially all of the costs of providing these services. Once this agreement ends, we will transition to a holding company for our investment in the Joint Venture and we expect to receive a quarterly cash dividend from this investment. In addition, we expect our operating costs to reduce to an insignificant amount once we have completed the transition which we expect to occur by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018. 
    
  As of July 1, 2017, the company's current liabilities exceed its current assets by   $11.9 million  . The current liabilities include the bridge loan used to pay the lease termination expenses, which matures on May 20, 2018. As of September 29, 2017, the original   $35 million   bridge loan has been reduced to approximately   $16.9 million   utilizing   75%   of the net proceeds from the sale of the company's distribution center in Benicia, CA for   $21.7 million   and both of the condominiums previously owned in Los Angeles, CA for   $2 million  . The company is considering several offers for its LA studio in a range of prices that are sufficient to enable the company to meet is current obligations and meet is cash flow needs. However, if the LA studio does not sell in the next twelve months the Company will be unable to repay the bridge loan at its maturity (May 30, 2018). As a result, the Company has concluded that there is substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern for the next year. 
    
  At   July 1, 2017  , we had cash and cash equivalents of   $17.0 million   held in accounts managed by third-party financial institutions consisting of invested cash and cash in our operating accounts. The invested cash is invested in interest bearing funds managed by third-party financial institutions. These funds invest in direct obligations of the government of the United States. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. 
  We hold our operating and invested cash in accounts that are with third-party financial institutions. The balances in these accounts exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. While we monitor daily the cash balances in our operating accounts and adjust the cash balances as appropriate, these cash balances could be impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail or could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to invested cash or cash in our operating accounts. 
  Net cash used by operating activities in fiscal   2017   and   2016   was   $69.1 million   and   $38.6 million  , respectively. Net cash used by operating activities increased   $30.5 million   from   2016   to   2017  . The increase in cash used in operating activities was  
  
   17 

driven primarily by   $69.1 million   in lease termination payments made during fiscal 2017 in connection with the closure of all our physical stores. 
  Net cash used in investing activities was   $2.4 million   in fiscal 2017 versus net cash provided by investing activities of   $47.5 million   in fiscal   2016  . The decrease in net cash provided by investing activities in fiscal   2017   from fiscal   2016   was a result of net proceeds of $32.5 million from the sale of an almost 50% ownership in our intellectual property assets in fiscal 2016 as well as the effect of net proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. Capital expenditures of   $3.2 million   in fiscal   2017   primarily related to investments in management information systems. 
    
  Net cash provided by financing activities was   $33.2 million   in fiscal   2017   compared to net cash provided by financing activities of   $0.0 million   in fiscal   2016  . The increase of   $33.2 million   was a result of proceeds received from bridge loan financing. We used the proceeds from this financing to pay lease termination payments. We expect to repay this bridge loan with proceeds received from the sale of our real estate assets which we anticipate will be either sold, or in closing during the first quarter of fiscal 2018.  
   
  Summary Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commitments: 
  Other than operating leases, we do not have any off-balance-sheet financing. The following tables summarize our significant contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of   July 1, 2017   (in thousands): 

(1) 
    The table above does not include liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits. As we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of such liabilities, the table does not include $0.1 million of income tax, interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits that are recorded as noncurrent liabilities within our consolidated balance sheet as of   July 1, 2017  . 
      
  Inflation 
  We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on the results of operations in the recent past. However, we cannot assure that our business will not be affected by inflation in the future.  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  We are exposed to market risks, which include changes in U.S. interest rates and, to a lesser extent, foreign exchange rates. We do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  We currently maintain a portfolio of variable interest rate investments consisting of cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. According to our investment policy, we may invest in taxable and tax-exempt instruments. In addition, the policy establishes limits on credit quality, maturity, issuer and type of instrument. Marketable securities are classified as  trading  or  available for sale . We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. 
  All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents.  
  The following table lists our cash equivalents at   July 1, 2017  : 
                       
    Fair Value 
        
    (Dollars in thousands) 
      Cash equivalents 
    $ 
    236 
      
      Weighted average interest rate 
      
    % 

Foreign Currency Risks 
  Foreign currency risk is no longer considered material after the shutdown of all of our stores in Canada. 
  
   18 

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  Information with respect to this item is set forth in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 
   
  ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
  None. 

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( the Exchange Act ) as of the end of the period covered by this report (  July 1, 2017  ). Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of the evaluation date, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective at a reasonable level of assurance to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms and accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely discussions regarding required disclosure. 
  Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Management s report on our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) in the Exchange Act), is included on page F-2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under the heading,  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during our most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. 

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION 
  None. 

19 

PART III 
   
  ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  Information regarding our executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is included under Item 1 of Part I of this report under the caption  Executive Officers and Directors of the Registrant  and incorporated herein by reference. 
  Information with respect to our directors required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Proposal No. 1 Election of Directors  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 
  Information with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Section 16(A) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 
  Information with respect to our code of ethics required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Committee Charters and Other Corporate Governance Materials  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 
  Information with respect to our corporate governance required by Item 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Corporate Governance Matters  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC no later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
  Information with respect to executive compensation required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Executive Compensation and Other Matters  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
  Information with respect to security ownership of beneficial owners and related stockholder matters required by Item 201(d) and Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Equity Compensation Plan Information  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 
   
  ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
  Information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A is incorporated by reference from  Ratification and Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year. 

20 

PART IV 
   
  ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  (a) 
  1  . The financial statements listed in the  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  at page F-1 are filed as a part of this report. 
  2  . Financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto. 
  3  . Exhibits included or incorporated herein: See Index to Exhibits.  
    
  (b) Exhibits 
                 EXHIBIT 
  NUMBER 
    DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT 
      3.1(h) 
    Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant. 
      3.2(f) 
    Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant. 
      4.1(a) 
    Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (in standard printer form, not provided). 
      10.1(i)(*) 
    1997 Stock Plan. 
      10.2(a)(*) 
    1998 Stock Purchase Plan. 
      10.3(a)(*) 
    Form of Indemnification Agreement. 
      10.4 
    Consulting Agreement, dated April 18, 2017, by and among bebe stores, inc., Great American Group, LLC and Tiger Capital Group, LLC. 
    
      10.5(c) 
    Form of Retail Store License Agreement between Registrant and [company]. 
      10.6(d) 
    Amendment No. 1 to Lease Agreement (amendment to Standard Industrial/Commercial-Tenant Lease-Net dated November 30, 1998 between Registrant and Far Western Land and Investment Company, Inc.) 
      10.7(e)(*) 
    Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement. 
      10.8(f) 
    Standard Offer, Agreement and Escrow Instructions for Purchase of Real Estate dated January 20, 2004 by and between bebe stores, inc. and 10345 Olympic LLC. 
      10.9(g)(*) 
    Management Bonus Plan. 
      10.10(h)(*) 
    bebe stores, inc. Form of Stock Option Agreement. 
      10.11(i)(*) 
    bebe stores, inc. Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. 
      10.17(j)(*) 
    Chief Executive Officer Employment Agreement between the Company and Jim Wiggett dated December 15, 2014. 
      10.18(k) 
    Amended and Restated Operating Agreement, dated June 8, 2016, by and among bebe stores, inc. and BB Brand Management LLC 
    
      10.19(l) 
    Asset Purchase and Contribution Agreement, dated June 8, 2016, by and among bebe stores, inc., bebe studio, inc. and BB Brand Holdings LLC 
      10.20(m) 
    License Agreement, dated June 8, 2016, by and among bebe stores, inc., bebe studio, inc., BB Brand Management LLC and BB Brand Holdings LLC 
      10.28(*) 
    Retention Bonus Letter Agreement, dated June 9, 2017, by and between bebe stores, inc. and Walter Parks. 
      10.33(*) 
    Retention Bonus Letter Agreement, dated August 8, 2017, by and between bebe stores, inc. and Darren Horvath. 
      21.1 
    Subsidiaries of Registrant. 
      23.1 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
      24.1 
    Power of Attorney (see signature page). 
      31.1 
    Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 
      31.2 
    Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 
      32.1 
    Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 
      32.2 
    Section 906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document. 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema. 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase. 
      101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase. 
      101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase. 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase. 

21 

(c) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 28, 1999. 
                 
   (*)        Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this report on      Form 10-K. 

22 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Brisbane, State of California, on the 29th day of September 2017. 
    
                   bebe stores, inc. 
      
      By: 
    /  S  / MANNY MASHOUF 

Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Manny Mashouf and Walter Parks, and each of them acting individually, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, each with full power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or his or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated: 
    
                   Name 
    Title 
    Date 

/  S  / MANNY MASHOUF 
    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board 
    September 29, 2017 
      Manny Mashouf 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

/  S  / WALTER PARKS 
    President, Chief Operating Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer  
    September 29, 2017 
      Walter Parks 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

/  S  / DARREN HORVATH 
    Controller 
    September 29, 2017 
      Darren Horvath 
        (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/  S  / BRETT BREWER 
    Director 
    September 29, 2017 
      Brett Brewer 

/  S  / CORRADO FEDERICO 
    Director 
    September 29, 2017 
      Corrado Federico 

/  S  / SETH JOHNSON 
    Director 
    September 29, 2017 
      Seth Johnson 

/  S  / ROBERT GALVIN 
    Director 
    September 29, 2017 
      Robert Galvin 

23 

bebe stores, inc. 
  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  FISCAL YEARS ENDED JULY 1, 2017, AND JULY 2, 2016: 
    
                  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
    F- 2 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    F- 3 

Consolidated balance sheets as of July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016  
    F- 4 

Consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for the fiscal years ended July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016 
    F- 5 

Consolidated statements of shareholders  equity for the fiscal years ended July    1, 2017 and July 2, 2016 
    F- 6 

Consolidated statements of cash flows for the fiscal years ended July    1, 2017 and July 2, 2016 
    F- 7 

Notes to consolidated financial statements  
    F- 8 

F- 1 

MANAGEMENT S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
    
  The management of bebe stores, inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, our management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of July 1, 2017. In making this assessment, management used the criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) (the  2013 Framework )   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) as it applies to smaller reporting companies. Management believes that, as of July 1, 2017, the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in the 2013 Framework. 
  September 29, 2017    
    
                 /s/    Manny Mashouf 
      
      Manny Mashouf Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board (Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/    Walter Parks 
      
      Walter Parks 
  President, Chief Operating Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

F- 2 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
  bebe stores, inc. 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of bebe stores, inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, shareholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for the fiscal years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of bebe stores, inc. and subsidiaries as of July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the fiscal years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has incurred recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows from operations and expects significant uncertainty in generating sufficient cash to meet its obligations and sustain its operations, which raises substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Management's plans concerning these matters are also discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. 
    
   /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
  San Francisco, California 
  September 29, 2017    
  
   F- 3 

bebe stores, inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (Amounts in thousands, except share data)    

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

F- 4 

bebe stores, inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
  (Amounts in thousands, except per share data)    

(1) 2016 amount represents reclassification to Other income (loss), net for securities sold.  
    
  See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

F- 5 

bebe stores, inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY (DEFICIT) 
  (Amounts in thousands) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 

F- 6 

bebe stores, inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (Amounts in thousands)   

  See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  
   F- 7 

bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   
  1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Going Concern Uncertainty   The Company incurred net losses and used cash in operating activities in fiscal 2017 and 2016. Cash and equivalents were   $17.0 million   as of July 1, 2017. 
    
  The Company used   $69.1 million   and   $38.6 million  , net of cash in operating activities in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively. The Company's liquidity is dependent upon its ability to generate cash from operations along with usage of its existing cash and cash equivalents. However, the Company no longer expects losses in the future to be significant due to the shut down of its operations. Subsequent to fiscal 2017, the Company expects operating expenses to be minimal reflecting the fact that the Company's primary asset will be its investment in the Joint Venture, and will not require significant operating cash flow to maintain. The Company expects to receive cash from the Joint Venture on a quarterly basis that will be sufficient to cover its operating expenses. 
    
  As of July 1, 2017, the Company's current liabilities exceed its current assets by   $11.9 million  . The current liabilities include the bridge loan used to pay the lease termination expenses, which matures May 30, 2018. As of September 29, 2017, the original   $35 million   bridge loan has been reduced to approximately   $16.9 million   utilizing   75%   of the net proceeds from the sale of the company's distribution center in Benicia, CA for   $21.7 million   and both of the condominiums previously owned in Los Angeles, CA for   $2 million  . The Company is considering several offers for its LA studio in a range of prices that are sufficient to enable the company to meet is current obligations and meet is cash flow needs. However, if the LA studio does not sell in the next twelve months and the bridge loans comes due, the Company will be unable to repay the bridge loan at its maturity (May 30, 2018). As a result, the Company has concluded that there is substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern for the next year. 
    
  Corporate Restructure and Strategic Partnership   During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, bebe stores, inc. (the  Company ) expanded upon its strategic joint venture arrangement entered into during fiscal 2016, and have closed all retail stores, sold its merchandise, inventory, furnishings, trade fixtures, equipment, improvements in real property, purchase orders related to its website and international wholesale business and is committed to selling its Los Angeles Design Studio. Under this partnership, during fiscal 2016 bebe contributed all of its trademarks, trademark license arrangements and related intellectual property, including domain names, social media accounts and agreements with certain of its international distributors to its joint venture BB Brand Holdings LLC (the  Joint Venture ). The Company's partner in the venture, Bluestar Alliance, LLC ( Bluestar ) continues to leverage its existing brand management organization and infrastructure to develop a wholesale domestic and international lifestyle licensing business for the Joint Venture and will manage its day-to-day operations. Going forward, the Joint Venture will aggressively pursue a licensing strategy designed to capitalize on the value of our brand in all categories and channels on a global scale. The Company expects the Joint Venture to generate long-term, committed royalties from prospective licensees of the bebe brand name. The decision to exit its retail operations was the result of continued operating losses.  
    
  The Company also agreed to lease termination buyouts with all of its landlords and recorded lease termination charges totaling   $70.9 million   (in discontinued operations) in connection with the closure of all of its stores. The Company anticipates paying these costs with proceeds from the sale of its real estate assets. However due to the timing of expected closure of real estate asset sales, the Company obtained bridge financing to pay the termination fees. The bridge loan will be repaid with the proceeds from sale of the real estate assets. In addition during fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment charges related to all of its long-lived assets as well as severance costs. See Note 3 for details. 
    
  The Company has agreed to provide transition services to Global Brands Group ("GBG"), an unrelated third party on a short-term basis not expected to go beyond October 31, 2017 for which it will receive a service fee that is expected to cover the Company's costs of providing the services. GBG has entered into a license agreement with the Joint venture and beginning May 2, 2017 began to operate the website   www.bebe.com   as well as the international business formerly operated by the Company. In connection with this arrangement, GBG purchased the remaining finished goods inventory of from the Company on May 2, 2017. 
    
  Historical nature of the business   bebe stores, inc. (the  Company ) designed, developed and produced a distinctive line of contemporary women s apparel and accessories, which it marketed under the bebe and BEBE SPORT brand names.  
  
   F- 8 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Basis of financial statement presentation   The accounting and reporting policies of the Company conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). 
  Consolidation   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
  Fiscal year   The Company s fiscal year ends on the first Saturday on or after June 30. Fiscal years   2017   and   2016  , each had 52 weeks. 
  Use of estimates   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
  Foreign currency adjustments   The Company enters into a significant amount of purchase obligations outside of the United States, substantially all of which are negotiated and settled in U.S. dollars. The Company also has a subsidiary for which the functional currency is the Canadian dollar. Assets and liabilities of bebe s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end rates, while income and expenses are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year. The related translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders  equity. Intercompany settlements are recorded in interest and other income, net at the weighted average exchange rate for the year. 
  Cash and equivalents   represent cash and short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of   less than three months  . The Company also classifies amounts in transit from banks for customer credit card and debit card transactions as cash and equivalents as the banks process the majority of these amounts within   one   or   two   business days. 
  Investment   The Company uses the equity method to account for its investment in BB Brand Holdings LLC (the Joint Venture) because it has the ability to exercise significant influence but not control. The Company's share of earnings as reported by the Joint Venture are recorded as earnings in equity-method investment on the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). 
  Fair value of financial instruments   The carrying values of cash and equivalents, receivables and accounts payable approximate their estimated fair values. 
    
  Concentration of credit risk   Financial instruments, which subject the Company to concentration of credit risk, consist principally of cash and equivalents. The Company invests its cash through financial institutions. Such investments may be in excess of FDIC insurance limits. The Company has not experienced any losses on its deposits of cash and equivalents for the periods presented. 
    
  Inventories   are stated at the lower of weighted average cost or market. Cost includes certain indirect purchasing, merchandise handling and storage costs. In addition, the Company estimates and accrues shortage for the period between the last physical count and the balance sheet date. 
    
  Allowance for doubtful accounts   The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts are summarized below (in thousands):    

F- 9 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Assets of discontinued operations held for sale   are stated at cost, which the Company believes is lower than market. Assets held for sale consists of the following:  

Property and equipment, net   are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization on property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives and is included within selling, general and administrative expenses except for depreciation expense related to our distribution center which is included in cost of sales.    
                 Description 
    Term 
      Buildings 
    39.5 years 
      Leasehold improvements 
    10 years or term of lease, whichever is shorter 
      Furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles 
    5 
      Computer hardware and software 
    3 

Impairment of long-lived assets   The Company regularly reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets. Long-lived assets are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of its assets might not be recoverable. Assets are grouped and evaluated for impairment at the lowest level of which there are identifiable cash flows, which is generally at a store level. Store assets are reviewed for impairment using factors including, but not limited to, the Company s future operating plans and projected cash flows. The determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows directly related to that store, compared to the carrying value of the assets. The Company recognizes full or partial impairment if the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows of a store does not exceed the carrying value of the assets. For impaired assets, the Company recognizes a loss equal to the difference between the net book value of the asset and its estimated fair value. Fair value is based on discounted future cash flows of the asset using a discount rate commensurate with the risk. In addition, at the time a decision is made to close a store, the Company records an impairment charge, if appropriate, and accelerates depreciation over the revised useful life of the asset. As of the end of fiscal 2017, all of the Company's long-lived assets were fully impaired, disposed of, or classified as discontinued operations.  
  Lease accounting   The Company leases retail stores and office space under operating leases. Costs associated with securing new store leases are capitalized in other assets and amortized over the lease term. Many of the Company s operating leases contain predetermined fixed increases of the minimum rental rate during the initial lease term. For these leases, the Company recognizes the related rental expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, commencing when possession of the property is taken from the landlord, which normally includes a construction period prior to the store opening. The Company records the difference between the recognized rent expense and the amounts paid as deferred rent. 
  The Company receives construction allowances from landlords, which are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including the construction period, as a reduction of rent expense. Construction allowances are recorded under deferred rent and other lease incentives on the balance sheet. 
    
  In fiscal 2017, the Company discontinued its retail operations and closed all of its stores prior to the expiration of the related leases and recorded an expense for lease termination costs included in discontinued operations totaling   $70.9 million   during the fiscal year. 
  Revenue recognition   Prior to discontinuing its retail operations, the Company recognized revenue at the time the products are received by the customer. Revenue is recognized for store sales at the point at which the customer receives and pays for the merchandise at the register. For on-line sales, revenue is recognized at the time the customer receives the product. The Company estimates and defers revenue and the related product costs for shipments that are in transit to the customer. Customers typically receive goods within a few days of shipment. Amounts related to shipping fees are included in net sales and the related costs are included in cost of goods sold. Sales tax collected from customers on sales are excluded from revenue. 

F- 10 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

Discounts offered to customers consist primarily of point of sale markdowns and are recorded at the time of the related sale as a reduction of revenue. 
  The value of points and rewards earned by our loyalty program members are recorded as a liability and a reduction of revenue at the time the points and rewards are earned based on historical conversion and redemption rates. The associated revenue is recognized when the rewards are redeemed or expire. 
  Gift certificates sold are recorded as a liability and revenue is recognized when the gift certificate is redeemed. Similarly, customers may receive a store credit in exchange for returned goods. Store credits are recorded as a liability until redeemed. Unredeemed store credits and gift certificates are recognized as other income within selling, general and administrative expenses   three   and   four years  , respectively, after issuance. In addition, the Company sells gift cards with no expiration dates to customers in its retail store locations, through its on-line stores, and through third parties. Income from gift cards is recognized when they are redeemed by the customer. In addition, the Company recognizes income on unredeemed gift cards when the likelihood of the gift card being redeemed is remote and there is no legal obligation to remit the unredeemed gift cards to relevant jurisdictions (gift card breakage). The Company determines the gift card breakage income based on historical redemption patterns, which the Company estimates is   four years  . Gift card breakage is included within selling, general and administrative expenses. 
  Royalty revenue from product licensees is recorded as the greater of the minimum amount guaranteed in the contract or units sold. 
  Wholesale revenue from the sale of product to international licensee operated bebe stores is recognized at the time the licensee receives the shipment. 
  Store preopening costs   associated with the opening or remodeling of stores, such as preopening payroll, are expensed as incurred. 
  Apparel and accessory design activities   are expensed as incurred. 
  Advertising costs   are charged to expense when the advertising takes place. Advertising costs were   $14.3 million  , and   $17.5 million  , respectively, during fiscal 2017 and 2016. 
  Income taxes   are accounted for using an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company s financial statements or tax returns. The Company is subject to periodic audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign, state and local taxing authorities. These audits may challenge certain of the Company s tax positions such as the timing and amount of income and deductions and the allocation of taxable income to various tax jurisdictions. The Company evaluates its tax positions and establishes liabilities in accordance with applicable accounting guidance on uncertainty in income taxes. In estimating future tax consequences, all expected future events known to management are considered other than pending changes in the tax law or rates. The Company regularly assesses the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred assets. In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the Company s deferred tax assets will not be realized, it considers all available positive and negative evidence, including recent year s operational results which is objectively verifiable evidence. As a result of its evaluation of the realizability of its deferred tax assets as of   July 1, 2017  , the Company has concluded, based upon all available evidence, that it is more likely than not that its deferred tax assets will continue to not be realized and the Company has recorded a full valuation allowance.  
  Self-insurance   The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance for employee related health care benefits and workers compensation. The Company records self-insurance liabilities based on claims filed and an estimate of those claims incurred but not reported. 
  Stock-based compensation   The Company has equity awards that vest based on achieving a service condition, and also has equity awards that vest based on a market-based or performance-based condition.  
    
  For awards to employees that have service-based vesting conditions, the Company recognizes compensation expense, based on the calculated fair value on the date of grant. For restricted stock units ( RSU ), the Company determines the fair value based on the stock price at the grant date. For stock options, the Company determines the fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. This model requires subjective assumptions, which are affected by its stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include its expected stock price volatility  
  
   F- 11 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

over the term of the awards, actual and projected employee exercise behaviors, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. As the stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for fiscal 2017 and 2016 is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, such amount has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The Company estimates forfeitures based on its historical experience. 
  Earnings per share   Basic earnings per share (EPS) is computed as net earnings divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur from common shares issuable through the exercise of outstanding dilutive stock options. 
  The following is a reconciliation of the number of shares used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations:    

(1) As the Company is in a loss position for all years presented, common stock equivalents are anti-dilutive and have been excluded. 
  Excluded from the computation of the number of diluted weighted average shares outstanding were anti-dilutive options to purchase   0.2 million   and   0.3 million   shares for the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016   respectively. 
  Comprehensive loss   consists of net loss and other comprehensive loss (income, expenses, gains and losses that bypass the income statement and are reported directly as a separate component of net loss). The Company s comprehensive loss includes net income (loss), unrealized gains (losses) on investments and foreign currency translation adjustments for all periods presented. Such components of comprehensive income are shown in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss.  
  The Company had the following balances of accumulated comprehensive income (loss):   

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  Leases 
  In February 2016 the FASB issued ASU 2016-02 "Leases". This standard requires lessees to put most leases on their balance sheets as a right-to-use asset and a lease liability, but to continue to recognize expenses in the statements of operations in a manner similar to current accounting. The Company will adopt this standard at the beginning of fiscal year 2020 and is currently assessing the impact to the consolidated financial statements. 
  
   F- 12 

bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

2. Gain on Sale of Intellectual Property and Equity Investment 
    
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, the Company contributed its intellectual property including trademarks, tradenames and certain domain names, along with all of its royalty license arrangements to a newly formed Joint Venture with Bluestar Alliance LLC (BlueStar). In exchange, bebe received cash proceeds of   $35 million   from Bluestar and a   50.0000000001%   ownership interest in the Joint Venture (Bluestar owns the remaining interest). The Company recorded a gain on the sale of assets, net computed as follows for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2016 (in thousands): 

The Company and Bluestar, each have   2   board seats (  4   board seats in total). All key management decisions must be made jointly, including approval of the operating budget. Accordingly the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the Joint Venture. The investment is accounted for using the equity method.  
   
  3. Discontinued Operation 
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, as a result of continued operating losses, the Company closed all of its stores and transferred its license to operate its online store and international operations to the Joint Venture. In connection with the closure of its operations, the Company also plans to sell its real estate holdings prior to the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018. The Company sold its remaining finished goods inventory to a third party who has taken over the license to operate www.bebe.com and international operations.  
  The results of the Company's retail operations have been presented as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for all periods presented and are as follows: 

F- 13 

       bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

As of   July 1, 2017  , the Company had a   $1.8 million   note payable to a former landlord in connection with a store closure. The note is payable in   eight   equal installments on a quarterly basis beginning October 1, 2017.  
    
  Assets held for sale consist of the Company's owned real estate properties consisting of a distribution center in Benicia CA, an LA design studio and   two   condominiums in LA. 
    
  Costs associated with the exit activities are recorded as follows:   

In addition the Company recorded   $22.9 million   in long-lived asset impairment during fiscal 2017 as a result of exit activities.  
    
  Depreciation and amortization of the discontinued operations were   $4.8 million   and   $12.5 million   for the fiscal years ended July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016 respectively. Capital expenditures of the discontinued operations were   $3.3 million   and   $7.2 million   for the fiscal years ended July 1, 2017 and July 2, 2016 respectively. 
    
  Assets of discontinued operations as of July 2, 2016 consisted of the following: 

Liabilities of discontinued operations as of July 2, 2016 consisted of accrued liabilities related to stores. 
   
  4. Equity Method Investment 
  As of   July 1, 2017   and July 2, 2016 the Company had approximately   50%   ownership interest in the Joint Venture with a carrying value of   $1.3 million   and   $1.1 million   respectively. 

5. Fair Value Measurements 
  The FASB has established a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. 
  As of   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016  , the Company held financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These included cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of money market funds.  
  The following items are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016  : 
                                             Description 

Using Quoted Prices 
  in  Active Markets for 
  Identical Assets 
      
    Significant 
  Other 
  Observable 
  Inputs 
      
    Significant 
  Unobservable 
  Inputs 

(Level 1) 
      
    (Level 2) 
      
    (Level 3) 
        
    Fair value measurements at reporting date 
  (In thousands) 
      Cash equivalents 
    $ 
    236 

$ 
    236 

$ 

$ 

Total 
    $ 
    236 

$ 
    236 

$ 

$ 

F- 14 

       bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

During the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016  , there were no transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 (quoted prices in active markets for identical assets) and Level 2 (significant other observable inputs) of the fair value measurement hierarchy.  
    
  Non-financial Assets 
  As of   July 1, 2017   the Company had   no   remaining stores and had fully impaired, all of its remaining long-lived assets at its corporate offices and distribution center because of the shut-down of its operations. In prior years, the Company measured certain non-financial assets and liabilities, including long-lived assets, at fair value on a non-recurring basis. During the fiscal year ended   July 2, 2016  , the Company recorded impairment charges of   $6.4 million  , related to under-performing stores, within discontinued operations. The following table presents the Company s considerations of at-risk assets for the fiscal year ended   July 2, 2016  , (dollar amounts in millions): 

July 2, 2016 

Number of stores identified as at risk and evaluated for impairment 
    34 

Number of stores identified as at risk, but not impaired 
    (5 
    ) 

Number of stores identified as at risk with impairment 
    29 

Total carrying amount of stores identified as at risk prior to any impairment charges taken 
    $ 
    8.4 

Total carrying amount of stores identified as at risk, but not impaired 
    (1.6 
    ) 

Total carrying amount of stores identified for impairment 
    6.8 

Impairment charges recorded 
    (6.4 
    ) 

Remaining carrying amount of stores identified for impairment after impairment charges taken 
    $ 
    0.4 

The fair market value of these assets was determined using the income approach and level 3 inputs, which required management to make significant estimates about future operating plans and projected cash flows. Management estimated the amount and timing of future cash flows based on its experience and knowledge of the retail market in which each store operates. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model and the related sensitivity analysis around the discounted cash flow model included estimates for weighted average cost of capital   11.0%   and annual revenue growth rates (range from   0.0%       5.0%  ). The stores not impaired had undiscounted cash flows that exceeded their net carrying amount at a weighted average of   164%   for the fiscal year ended   July 2, 2016  . 

6. Lease Obligations 
  Rent expense under operating leases for the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016   was $  127.8 million   and   $78.0 million  , respectively. Included in rent expense for fiscal years 2017 and 2016 were   $69.1 million   and   $2.6 million   in lease termination payments in connection with store closures. Rent expense included other lease-required expenses for fiscal years   2017  , and   2016   of   $23.0 million   and   $29.8 million  , respectively. 
  
   F- 15 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  7. Lease Obligations (Continued) 

Future minimum lease payments for noncancellable leases at   July 1, 2017   are as follows: 

7. Accrued Liabilities 
  Accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):    

8. Bridge Loan 
    
  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company obtained financing in the form of a bridge loan from its investment advisor. The proceeds of the bridge were used primarily to pay lease termination payments. Terms of the bridge loan are as follows: 
    
  Principal amount:      $35 million    
  Issue discount:      $1.1 million    
  Maturity date:     May 30, 2018 
  Interest rate:      9%   per annum 
  Effective rate:      9.6%   per annum 
    
  The Company is required to make mandatory prepayments on the loan balance before the stated maturity of the net proceeds received from the sale of its real estate assets.  
  
   F- 16 

bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

9. Income Taxes 
  Significant components of the provision for income taxes expense (benefit) from continuing operations are as follows:    
                                 
    Fiscal Year Ended 
        
    July 1, 2017 
      
    July 2, 2016 

(in thousands) 
      Current: 

Federal 
    $ 

$ 

State 

Foreign 

Deferred: 

Federal 

State 

Foreign 

Provision (benefit) from continuing operations 
    $ 

$ 

The components of loss from continuing operations before income taxes are as follows: 

A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate with the Company s effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows: 

F- 17 

       bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

9. Income Taxes (Continued) 
  Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax reporting purposes. 
  Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows:    

As of   July 1, 2017  , the Company has federal, state and foreign gross net operating loss carryovers of approximately   $323.7 million  ,   $335.2 million   and   $10.0 million  , respectively. If not used, these carry forwards will expire at various dates from fiscal year 2017 to fiscal year 2036. The Company also has foreign tax credit and state tax credit carry forwards of approximately   $1.4 million   and   $0.2 million  , respectively, which will be available to offset future taxable income. If not used, the foreign tax credit carry forwards will expire at various dates from 2017 to 2027 and the state tax credit will expire from 2020 to 2022. 
  As of   July 1, 2017  , it was considered more likely than not that the Company s deferred tax assets would not be realized. The Company regularly assesses the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred assets. In evaluating whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the Company s deferred tax assets will not be realized, it considers all available positive and negative evidence, including recent years' operating results which is objectively verifiable evidence. As a result of its evaluation of the realizability of its deferred tax assets as of   July 1, 2017  , the Company has concluded, based upon all available evidence, that it is more likely than not that the majority of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, the Company increased its valuation allowance by approximately   $53.8 million   for the current fiscal year. The Company will continue to maintain a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets until the Company believes it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized in the future. If sufficient positive evidence arises in the future indicating that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets meet the more likely than not standard, the valuation allowance would be reversed accordingly in the period that such determination is made. 
  The Company accounts for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. During the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017  , and   July 2, 2016  , the Company recognized approximately   $0.0 million   and   $0.0 million   in interest and penalties, respectively. The Company had   no   accruals for interest and penalties at   July 1, 2017   or   July 2, 2016  . 
  The Company could be subject to Federal income tax examinations for fiscal years 2014 and forward and could be subject to state and Canada examinations for fiscal years 2010 and forward. The Company is not currently under examination with the IRS.  The Company is under audit in certain states for fiscal year 2011 through fiscal year 2014, and expects additional  
  
   F- 18 

       bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

9. Income Taxes (Continued) 
  audits to commence. At this time, the Company does not believe that the outcome of any examination will have a material impact on the Company s financial statements. 
  As of   July 1, 2017  , the Company has   $0.1 million   in unrecognized tax benefits. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits are as follows:    
                                 
    July 1, 2017 
      
    July 2, 2016 

Balance as of beginning of period 
    $ 
    384 

$ 
    384 

Additions for tax positions taken during the current year 

Additions for tax positions taken during prior years 

Reductions for tax positions taken during the current year 
    (317 
    ) 

Settlements 

Expirations of statues of limitations 

Balance as of end of period 
    $ 
    67 

$ 
    384 

Of the   $0.1 million   recorded at   July 1, 2017  ,   $0.0 million   of unrecognized tax benefits would affect the effective tax rate if recognized. While the Company expects the amount of unrecognized tax benefits to change in the next twelve months, the change is not expected to have a significant effect on the estimated effective annual tax rate, the results of operations or financial position. 
   
  10. Property and Equipment 
  Non-current assets of discontinued operations consist of property and equipment as follows: 

Construction in progress consisted primarily of construction costs related to stores that will open subsequent to year end and information technology projects. 
   
  11. Employee Benefit Plan 
  Employees are eligible to participate in the Company s 401(k) plan (the Plan) if they, have reached age   21   and work at least   500   hours annually. Generally, employees can defer up to   75%   of their gross wages up to the maximum limit allowable under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company makes a   10%   matching contribution up to the annual maximum IRS contribution limit for the employee each payroll and, provided certain earnings goals are met, the Plan allows for an incremental   10%   match following year end. Company contributions to the plan for the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017  , and   July 2, 2016   were   $0.4 million  , and   $0.4 million  , respectively. 
  The Company terminated the plan effective September 23, 2017. 
  
   F- 19 

bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

12. Shareholders  Equity (Deficit) 
  In December 2016 the Company effected a 1 for 10 reverse common stock split. The effects of this have been applied retroactively. 
  Preferred Stock 
  The Company is authorized to issue up to   1,000,000   shares of   $0.001   par value preferred stock and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions including voting rights, of these shares without any further vote or approval by the shareholders. No preferred stock has been issued to date. 
  Common Stock Plans 
  The 1997 Stock Plan as amended (the  Stock Plan ) provided for the grant of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock purchase rights, stock awards and service-based and performance-based restricted stock units ( RSU ). Although the Stock Plan allowed for stock options and related awards to be granted at prices below fair market value, the Company historically granted such options at the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. Stock options and related awards have a maximum term of   ten years  . Options and restricted stock units granted to employees generally vest over   four years   with   25%   of the award vested on each of the   four   anniversary dates. Options granted to directors generally vest over   four years   with   25%   of the award vested on each of the   four   anniversary dates. RSUs awarded to directors generally vest over a period of   one year   from the date of grant. As of   July 1, 2017  , the Company has   667,821   further shares available for future grant. 
  No options were granted in fiscal 2017 or 2016. The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at   July 1, 2017  : 

As of   July 1, 2017   there were approximately   127,905   options exercisable at weighted-average exercise prices per share of   $66.20  . 
  The following table summarizes stock option activity:    

F- 20 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

The following table summarizes RSU activity:    

Stock-based compensation 
  For the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016  , the Company recognized share-based compensation expense of   $(0.4) million   and   $2.0 million  , respectively. As of   July 1, 2017  , there was   $0.6 million   (before any related tax benefit) of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.41   years. 
    
  The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of the grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected life of the options represents the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and is based on historical trends. The expected stock price volatility is based on an average of the historical volatility of the Company s stock for a period approximating the expected life and the implied volatility based on traded options of the Company s stock. The expected dividend yield is based on the Company s historical dividend payout. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant and has a term that approximates the expected life. 
    
  Stock Purchase Plan 
  The 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  Plan ) has a total of   191,654   shares of common stock reserved for issuance. The Plan is implemented in   three   month purchase periods. The price at which stock may be purchased is equal to   95%   of the fair market value of the Company s common stock on the Purchase Date. During the fiscal years ended   July 1, 2017   and   July 2, 2016   there were   2,203  , and   2,460   shares issued, respectively. 
   
  13. Litigation 
    
  As of the date of this filing, the Company is involved in ongoing legal proceedings as described below. 
    
  A former employee filed a complaint against the Company on November 2, 2010, in the Superior Court of California, San Bernardino County (Case No. CIVRS1011823) alleging failure to pay wages, failure to provide meal and rest periods, and other violations of the California Labor Code and Business   Professions Code  17200   et. seq  .  The plaintiff purported to bring the action on behalf of current and former California bebe stylists and sales associates who are similarly situated.  The complaint sought damages, civil penalties, and injunctive relief among other remedies.  In June 2016, the parties entered into a settlement agreement conditioned upon final Court approval.   In August 2017, the Court preliminarily approved the class action settlement. The parties are in the process of the administration of the settlement with the class members.  The Company believes the settlement amounts, accrued in Q4 of fiscal 2017, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.   
    
  A customer served the Company with a complaint on January 31, 2014, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (Civil Action No. C14-267 DMR) alleging various violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (47 U.S.C.   227   et seq  .) and violations of California s unfair competition law (California Business and Professions Code    17200,   et seq  .) stemming from an alleged failure to obtain customer consent prior to sending text messages. The plaintiff purported to bring the action on behalf of others similarly situated.  The complaint sought damages and injunctive relief among other remedies. A companion proceeding, previously reported, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California (Civil Action No. 3:14-CV-01968)) was consolidated with this action.   In April 2016, the parties entered into a settlement agreement conditioned upon final Court approval.  In July 2017, the Court preliminarily approved the class action settlement. The parties are in the process of the administration of the settlement with the class  
  
   F- 21 

    bebe stores, inc. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 

members. The Company believes the settlement amounts, accrued in Q3 of fiscal 2017, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
    
  The Company is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Regarding all matters referenced herein, the Company intends to vigorously defend itself and has accrued estimated amounts of liability where required, appropriate and determinable. Any such estimates may be revised as further information becomes available. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain and as such the Company cannot assure that it will be able to successfully defend itself in these proceedings or that any amounts accrued are sufficient.   
   
  14. Related Party Transactions 
    
  During the fiscal years 2016 the Company made payments of   $0.2 million   to Skid Holdings LLC for consulting services. Skid Holdings is owned by Manny Mashouf, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. These payments were made for services rendered prior to his becoming Chief Executive Officer. 
   
  15. Subsequent Event 
  During first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company sold its distribution center in Benicia, CA for net proceeds totaling   $21.7 million  . The Company used   $16.2 million   of the proceeds to pay down the bridge loan and will record a gain of   $5.9 million   during the first quarter.  
  
   F- 22 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

F- 23 

EXHIBIT 
  NUMBER 
    DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT 
       3.1(h)  
    Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Registrant. 
       3.2(f)  
    Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant. 
       4.1(a)  
    Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (in standard printer form, not provided). 
       10.1(i)(*)  
    1997 Stock Plan. 
       10.2(a)(*)  
    1998 Stock Purchase Plan. 
       10.3(a)(*)  
    Form of Indemnification Agreement. 
       10.4  
    Consulting Agreement, dated April 18, 2017, by and among bebe stores, inc., Great American Group, LLC and Tiger Capital Group, LLC. 
       10.6(b)  
    Standard Industrial/Commercial-Tenant Lease-Net dated November 30, 1998 between Registrant and Far Western Land and Investment Company, Inc., (lease for additional building to house administrative departments in Brisbane, California). 
       10.8(c)  
    Form of Retail Store License Agreement between Registrant and [company]. 
       10.9(d)  
    Amendment No. 1 to Lease Agreement (amendment to Standard Industrial/Commercial-Tenant Lease-Net dated November 30, 1998 between Registrant and Far Western Land and Investment Company, Inc.). 
       10.12(e)(*)  
    Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement. 
       10.17(f)  
    Standard Offer, Agreement and Escrow Instructions for Purchase of Real Estate dated January 20, 2004 by and between bebe stores, inc. and 10345 Olympic LLC. 
       10.18(g)(*)  
    Employment agreement between the Company and Emilia Fabricant. 
       10.19(h)(*)  
    Management Bonus Plan. 
       10.21(j)(*)  
    bebe stores, inc. Form of Stock Option Agreement. 
       10.22(k)(*)  
    bebe stores, inc. Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. 
       10.23(l)  
    Credit Agreement between Registrant and Wells Fargo. 
       10.24(m)  
    Amendment to Credit Agreement and Revolving Line of Credit Note between Registrant and Wells Fargo. 
       10.25(m)  
    Contract of Sale for Purchase of Real Estate dated March 13, 2012 by and between bebe Studio Realty, inc. and MP Benicia Logistics, LLC. 
       10.26(o)  
    Third Amendment to Credit Agreement and Revolving Line of Credit Note between Registrant and Wells Fargo dated as of February 1, 2013. 
       10.28(*)  
    Retention Bonus Letter Agreement, dated June 9, 2017, by and between bebe stores, inc. and Walter Parks. 
    
       10.29(q)  
    Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement and First Modification to Promissory Note between Registrant and Wells Fargo dated as of May 15, 2013. 
       10.30(r)(*)  
    Severance Agreement between the Company and Jim Wiggett dated December 15, 2014. 
       10.33   (*) 
    Retention Bonus Letter Agreement, dated August 8, 2017, by and between bebe stores, inc. and Darren Horvath. 
       21.1  
    Subsidiaries of Registrant. 
       23.1  
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
      24.1 
    Power of Attorney (see signature page). 
       31.1  
    Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 
       31.2  
    Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 
       32.1  
    Section 906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 
       32.2  
    Section 906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer. 
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document. 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema. 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase. 
      101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase. 
      101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase. 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase. 

F- 24 

(b) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on February 16, 1999. 
              (c) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 28, 1999. 
              (d) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 28, 2000. 
              (e) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 29, 2003. 
              (f) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 13, 2004. 
              (g) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibits of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 8-K filed on August 4, 2010. 
              (h) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibit of the same number in Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 14, 2005. 
                    (o) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibit 10.2 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 9, 2013. 
               (q) 
    Incorporated by reference from exhibit 10.1 to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 9, 2014. 
      (*)         Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed as exhibits to this report on Form 10-K. 

F- 25 

<EX-10.4>
 2
 exhibit1042017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.4

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10.4 

CONSULTING AGREEMENT 
    
  This Consulting  Agreement  ("Agreement")   is made as of April  18, 2017, by and between bebe stores,  inc., a California  corporation,  and its subsidiaries   party hereto  (collectively,  "Merchant"   or a "~  "  ),  Great American  Group,  LLC,  a California   limited  liability  company  ("Great  American"), and Tiger  Capital  Group  ,     LLC,  a Massachusetts   limited  liability  company   ("Tiger";   together  with Great American,  "Consultant"   and, together  with  Merchant,  the "Parties"). 
    
  RECITALS 
    
  WHEREAS,  Merchant operates retail stores  and desires that the Consultant  provide consulting services  to Merchant  with  respect  to Merchant's    (a)  sale of all of the Merchandise (as hereinafter defined) from Merchant's one hundred forty seven (147)  retail store locations identified on Exhibit A  attached hereto (each individually a "Store,"  and  collectively the   "  Stores")  and  Merchant's distribution center identified on Exhibit B attached hereto ("DC") by means of a "store closing", "sale on everything", "everything must go" or similar sale in the Stores as provided for herein; and (b) disposition of the Owned FF E  (as hereinafter defined) in the Stores (as further described below, the "Sale"). 
    
  AGREEMENT 
    
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Consultant and Merchant hereby agrees as follows: 
    
  Section 1.        Appointment of Consultant 
    
  Effective as of the date hereof, Merchant hereby appoints the Consultant, and the Consultant hereby agrees to serve, as Merchant's exclusive independent consultant in connection with the conduct of the Sale on the terms and conditions of this Agreement.    Subject to any limitations, restrictions or prohibitions, imposed under the applicable leases for the Stores and/or applicable state or local laws or regulations, Consultant shall be authorized to advertise the Sale as a "store closing", "sale on everything", "everything must go" or similar-themed sale. 
    
  Section 2.         Merchandise 
    
  For purposes hereof, "Merchandise" shall mean all goods, saleable in the ordinary course, located in the Stores on the Sale Commencement Date (defined below), delivered thereto from the DC after the Sale Commencement Date, but does not include owned furnishings, trade fixtures, equipment and improvements to  real property  that  are  located  in  the  Stores  (collectively,  "Owned  FF E"). Merchandise expressly excluded an inventory or other assets located in Merchants' other retail store locations, the Distribution Center and/or corporate offices. 
    
  Section 3.        Sale Term 
    
  For each Store, the Sale shall commence on April 20, 2017 (the "Sale Commencement Date")  ,   and shall conclude no later than May 28, 20 I 7 (the "Sale Tennination Date"); provided, however, that the Parties may mutually agree in writing to extend or terminate the Sale at any Store prior to the Sale Termination Date (it being understood that, if  the timing set forth herein changes, Merchant and 
  
   1 

Consultant    shall    mutually    agree   on   adjustments    to   the   Expense    Budget    and   Consultant's compensation)  .        For  any  Store,  the  period  between   the  Sale  Commencement    Date  and  the  Sale Termination  Date with respect to such Store shall be referred  to as the "Sale Term."   At the conclusion of  the  Sale,  Consultant   shall  surrender   the  premises   for  each  Store  to  Merchant   in  broom  clean condition;  provided  that unsold FF E may be abandoned   by Consultant  in place  at the Stores  or the DC without any cost or liability of any kind to Consultant. 
    
  Section 4.          Project Management 
    
  (A)        Consultant's Undertakings 
    
  During the Sale Term,  Consultant  shall provide  Merchant  with  the following  services  with respect  to the conduct  of the  Sale: (a) provide  a minimum  of ten (10)  qualified  supervisors,   comprised  of one ( 1) lead supervisor,  one (I) financial and accounting  supervisor,  one ( l) distribution  center supervisor (2  weeks  only)   and  eight  (8)  field  supervisors    (collectively,       the  "Supervisors"),    engaged   by Consultant  and  dedicated   by Consultant   to oversee  the  Sale  of the  Merchandise   from  the  Stores; provided  however,  as the Sale progresses,  Merchant  and Consultant   have the right to agree to reduce the  minimum   number   of  dedicated   Supervisors    based   upon   the  circumstances;    (b)  determine appropriate  point-of-sale   and external  advertising  for the Stores,  approved  in advance  by Merchant; (c) determine appropriate  discounts  with respect  to Merchandise,   staffing  levels for the Stores and the DC, approved  in advance  by Merchant  ,    and appropriate   bonus  and incentive  programs,  if any, for the Stores'   and   the   DC'   employees,   approved    in  advance    by   Merchant;    (d)   oversee   display   of 
  Merchandise   for the  Stores;  (e) evaluate  sales  of Merchandise   by category  and  sales reporting   and monitor  expenses;   (f)  maintain   the  confidentiality    of  all  proprietary   or  non-public   information regarding Merchant  in accordance  with  the provisions  of the confidentiality   agreement  signed  by the Parties;   (g)  assist   Merchant   in  connection   with   managing    and  controlling    loss  prevention   and employee   relations   matters;   and  (h)  provide   such   other   related   services   deemed   necessary   or appropriate  by Merchant  and Consultant. 
    
  The  Parties  expressly   acknowledge   and  agree  that  the  Supervisors    are  independent   contractors engaged by Consultant  (not Merchant),  Merchant  shall  have no direct  liability  to the Supervisors  for wages, benefits,  severance  pay, termination  pay, vacation  pay, pay in lieu of notice  of termination  or any  other  liability   arising  from  Consultant's    hiring   or  engagement    of  the  Supervisors,   and  the Supervisors  shalt not be considered  employees  of Merchant  . 
    
  (B)         Merchant's   Undertakings 
    
  During  the Sale  Tenn,  Merchant  shall  (a)  be the  employer   of  the Stores'   and  the DC'  employees, other than the  Supervisors;   (b) pay all taxes,  costs,  expenses,   accounts  payable,  and other liabilities relating  to the  Stores,  the  DC,  the  Stores'   employees   and  other  representatives    of Merchant;   (c) prepare and process  all tax forms and other documentation;   (d) collect  all sales taxes and pay them to the  appropriate   taxing  authorities   for  the  Stores;  (e)  use  reasonable   efforts   to  cause  Merchant's employees  to cooperate  with Consultant  and the Supervisors;   (f) execute  all agreements  determined by the Merchant  and Consultant  to be necessary  or desirable   for the operation  of the Stores,  the DC during the Sale; (g) arrange  for the ordinary  maintenance   of all point-of-sale   equipment  required  for the Stores; and (h) use reasonable  efforts  to ensure that Consultant   has quiet use and enjoyment  of the Stores for the Sale Tenn  in order to perform  its obligations  under  this Agreement. 
  
   2 

Merchant  shall  provide  throughout  tbe Sale Term  central  administrative   services  necessary  for the Sale, including,  without  limitation,  customary  POS  administration,    sales  audit,  cash reconciliation, accounting,  and payrolJ processing,  all at no cost to Consultant. 
    
  The Parties  expressly  acknowledge   and agree  that  Consultant   shall  have  no  liability  to Merchant's employees  for wages,  benefits,  severance  pay, termination   pay, vacation  pay, pay in lieu of notice  of termination   or  any  other  liability  arising  from  Merchant's    employment,   hiring  or retention   of  its employees,  and such employees  shall not be considered   employees  of Consultant. 
    
  Section      5  .            T  h  e Sa  l  e 
    
  All sales of Merchandise   shall be made on behalf  of Merchant.    Consultant  does not have, nor shall it have, any right,  title or interest  in the Merchandise.    All  sales of Merchandise   shall be by cash, gift card, gift  certificate,   merchandise   credit,  or credit  card  and,  at Merchant's   discretion,  by check  or otherwise  in accordance  with  Merchant's   policies,   and  shall  be "final"  with  no returns  accepted  or allowed, unless  otherwise  directed  by Merchant. 
    
  Section  6.          Consultant's Fee and Expenses in Connection with  the  Sale 
    
  (i)           Consultant's Fee 
    
  In consideration of its services rendered hereunder with respect to the Stores, Consultant shall be paid a fee equal to five hundred fifty thousand dollars ($550,000) (the "  Consultant's Fee  ")  . 
    
  (ii)         Expenses 
    
  Merchant shall be responsible for all expenses of the Sale, including without limitation all Store-level and DC-level operating expenses.  To control expenses of the Sale, Merchant and Consultant have estabJishedan aggregate budget for the Sale at the Stores (the "Expense Budget"), a copy of which is attached as Exhibit C, which the Consultant shall not exceed in the aggregate absent Merchant's written consent. The Expense Budget may only be modified by mutual agreement of Consultant and Merchant.  The costs of supervision set forth on Exhibits C include, among other things, industry standard deferred compensation. 
    
  (iii)       Reconciliation  : Payment 
    
  All accounting matters (including, without limitation, ten percent (10%) of the Consultant's Fee, and Consultant incurred expenses per the Expense Budget that are reimbursable or payable to Consultant) shall be reconciled on every Wednesday for the prior week and shall be paid within seven (7) days after each such weekly reconciliation. The Parties shall complete a final reconciliation and settlement of all amounts payable to Consultant and contemplated  by  this Agreement (including, without limitation, Expense Budget items, and fees earned hereunder) no later than ten (10) days following the Sale Termination Date for the last Store (the "Final Reconciliation"). 
    
  Section 7.         Indemnification 
    
  (i)          Merchant's Indemnification 

Merchant   shall  indemnify,   defend,  and  hold  Consultant   and  its  consultants,   members,  managers, partners,  officers,  directors,   employees,  attorneys,   advisors,   representatives,    lenders,  potential  co  investors,    principals,   affiliate  s,     and  Supervisors    (collectively  ,      "  C  onsult  a  nt     Indemnified   Parties") harmless  from and  against  all liabilities,  claims,  demands,   damages  ,     costs  and  expenses  (including reasonable  attorneys'  fees) ar  i  s  i  ng   from or related  to  :    (a) the willful  or negligent  acts or omi  ss  ions  of Merchant  or the Merchant   Indemnified  Parties  (as  defined  below)  ;     (b) the  material  breach  of any provision   of  thi  s    Agreement   by  Merchant;   (c)  any  liabi  l  ity    or  other  claims,   including  ,      without limitation,  product  liability  claims,  asserted  by customers,   any Store  employees     (  under  a collective   b  argain  i  rr  g   ag  r  e  e  me  n  ro  r     o  t  l'f  l!'  rw  i  s  e  )  ,    o  r   a  n  yo  t  h  e  r   p  e  r  s  o  n  -  (  e  x  cl  udin  g     C  o  n  s  u  ltari           Tu  ne  m  n  ifie  d  Pa  rtie.s  ) against Consultant or an Consultant Indemnified Party, except claims arising from Consultant's gross negligence, willful misconduct or unlawful behavior; ( d) any harassment, discrimination or violation of any laws or regulations or any other unlawful,  tortuous or otherwise actionable treatment of Consultant's Indemnified Parties or Merchant's customers by Merchant or Merchant's Indemnified Parties; and (e) Merchant's failure to pay over to the appropriate taxing authority any taxes required to be paid by Merchant during the Sale Tenn in accordance with applicable law. 
    
  (ii)        Consultant's Indemnification 
    
  Consultant shall indemnify, defend and hold Merchant  and its consultants, members, managers, partners, officers, directors, employees  ,   attorneys, advisors, representatives, lenders, potential co  investors, principals, and affiliates (other than the Consultant or the Consultant Indemnified Parties) (collectively, "  Merchant Indemnified Parties  ")  harmless  from and against all liabilities, claims, demands, damages, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) arising from or related to (a) the willful or grossly negligent acts or omissions of Consultant or the Consultant Indemnified Parties; (b) the breach of any provision of, or the  failure to perform any obligation under, this Agreement by Consultant; (c) any liability or other claims made by Consultant's Indemnified Parties or any other person (excluding Merchant Indemnified Parties) against a Merchant Indemnified Party arising out of or related to Consultant's conduct of the Sale, excep  t   claims arising from Merchant's gross negligence, willful misconduct, or unlawful behavior; (d) any harassment, discrimination or violation of any laws or regulations or any other unlawful, tortuous or otherwise actionable treatment of Merchant Indemnified Parties  ,    or Merchant's  customers by Consultant or any of the Consultant Indemnified Parties and (e) any claims made by any party engaged by Consultant as an employee, agent, representative or independent contractor arising out of such engagement. 
    
  Section 8.         Insurance 
    
  (A)        Merchant'  s     Insurance Obligations 
    
  Merchant shall maintain throughout the Sale Term, liability insurance policies (including, without limitation  ,   products liability  (to  the extent  currently  provided),  comprehensive public  liability insurance and auto liability insurance) covering injuries to persons and property in or in connection with the Stores, and shall cause Consultant to be named an additional insured with respect to all such policies. At Consultant's request, Merchant shall provide Consultant with a certificate or certificates evidencing the insurance coverage required hereunder and that Consultant is an additional insured thereunder.  In addition, Merchant shall maintain throughout the Sale Tenn, in such amounts as it currently has in effect, workers compensation insurance in compliance with all statutory requirements. 

(B)        Consultant's  Insurance Obligations 
    
  As an expense  of the Sale and set forth on the Expense  Budget,  Consultant  shall maintain  throughout the Sale Tenn,  liability  insurance policies  (including,   without  limitation,  products  liability/completed operations,  contractual   liability,  comprehensive    public  liability  and  auto  liability  insurance)  on an occurrence  basis in an amount  of at least one million  dollars  ($ J  ,000,000)  and an aggregate  basis of at least five million  dollars ($5,000,000)  covering  injuries  to persons  and property  in or in connection with Consultant's   provision  of services at the Stores.   Consultant  shall name Merchant  as an additional   in  s  u  re  d    an  d  -  toss  -  p  a  y  e  '  e  ~  u  rrdi::no  "C"  h   p  l:l  l  tc  y;-  a  n  -  d  upc  fn ex  ec  uti  on    o  rt  lfi  s  A  gr  ee  m  e  n  t     p  ro  v  -  i  a  e  ivrerc  han  t   with a certificate  or certificates  evidencing  the  insurance   coverage  required  hereunder.    In addition, Consultant  shall  maintain  throughout  the  Sale  Term,   workers  compensation   insurance  compliance with all statutory requirements.   Further, should  Consultant   employ or engage third parties  to perform any of Consultant's  undertakings  with regard to this Agreement,  Consultant  will ensure that such third parties  are covered  by Consultant's   insurance  or maintain   all of the same  insurance  as Consultant  is required to maintain  pursuant  to this paragraph  and  name  Merchant  as an additional  insured  and loss payee under the policy  for each such insurance. 
    
  Section  9.          Representations, Warranties, Covenants  and Agreements 
    
  (A)         Merchant's     Re  p  r  es  e  n  tat  i  o  n  s  .      W  arr  anti  e  s  ,     Covenants  and A  g  re  e  m  en  t  s. 
    
  Merchant   warrants,   represents  ,      covenants   and   agrees   that  (a)  Merchant   is  a  corporation   duly organized,  validly  existing  and in good standing  under  the laws of its state of organization  ,     with  full power and authority  to execute and deliver  this Agreement   and to perform  its obligations  hereunder, and maintains  its principal  executive office at the address  set forth herein,  (b) the execution,  delivery and performance   of this Agreement  has been  duly  authorized   by all necessary  actions  of Merchant and  this  Agreement   constitutes   a valid  and  binding   obligation   of  Merchant   enforceable   against Merchant  in accordance  with its terms and conditions,   and the consent  of no other entity or person is required  for Merchant   to fully perform  all of its obligations   herein,  and (c) other  than as a result of the commencement   ofa  bankruptcy  proceeding  (as contemplated   in Section  19 below),  the Stores and the DC will be operated  in the ordinary  course  of business  in all respects,  other than those expressly agreed to by Merchant  and Consultant;  provided  however,  it is agreed  and understood  that both prior to and after the date of this Agreement  that (i) Merchant   began  the process  of emptying  the DC and transferring  the Merchandise   located therein  to the  Stores  ;     and  (ii) Merchant  began  the process  of consolidating  the goods  in its other retail store locations   into the DC and the Stores. 
    
  (B)         Consult  a  nt'  s     R  ep  res  e  n  ta  ti  o  n  s  ,     Warra  n  ti  es.     Co  v  e  n  an  t  s     and Agreements  , 
    
  Consultant   warrants,   represents,   covenants   and   agrees   that  (a)  Consultant   is  a  limited   liability company   duly  organized,   validly  existing   and  in  good   standing   under  the  laws  of  its  state  of organization,  with full power and authority  to execute  and deliver  this Agreement  and to perform  the Consultant's   obligations  hereunder,  and maintains   its principal  executive  office  at the addresses  set forth herein, (b) the execution,  delivery and performance   of this Agreement  has been duly authorized by all necessary  actions  of Consultant  and this Agreement   constitutes  a valid and binding  obligation of Consultant  enforceable   against  Consultant  in accordance   with  its terms and conditions  (except as such  enforceability   may  be  limited  by applicable   bankruptcy,   reorganization  ,     moratorium   or other similar  laws affecting  creditors'   rights  generally   and  by general  principles  of equity  (regardless  of 

whether  enforceability   is consider  in a proceeding   in equity  or at Jaw)), and the consent  of no other entity or person  is required  for Consultant  to fully perform  all of its obligations  herein, ( c) Consultant shall comply with the provisions  of the leases that would  limit or restrict the conduct  or advertisement of  the  Sale;  provided   however,  prior  to  the  Sale   Commencement    Date  Merchant   shall  provide Consultant  with  a written  summary  of such restrictions;    (d) Consultant  shall comply  with  and act in accordance  with  any and all applicable  state  and  local  laws, rules,  and regulations,   and  other  legal obligations of all governmental  authorities,  ( e) no non-emergency   repairs or maintenance  in the Stores will be conducted   without  Merchant's   prior  written   consent,   and    (f)    Consultant will not take any disciplinary action against any employee of Merchant. 
    
  Section 10.       Furniture,  Fixtures and Equipment 
    
  Consultant shall sell the Owned FF E in the Stores from the Stores themselves.  Merchant shall be responsible for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Consultant in connection with the sale of Owned FF E, which costs and expenses shall be incurred pursuant to a budget or budgets to be established from time to time by mutual agreement of the Parties. Consultant shall have the right to abandon at the Stores and the DC any unsold Owned FF E without any cost or liability of any kind to Consultant. 
    
  In   consideration for providing the services set forth in this Section 10, Consultant shall be entitled to a commission from the sale of the Owned FF E equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the gross proceeds of the sale of the Owned FF E (the "FF E"). 
    
  Merchant shall remit to Consultant the Owned FF E Fee within seven (7) days after each such weekly reconciliation  . 
    
  Section 11.       Termination 
    
  The following shall constitute "Termination Events" hereunder: 
    
           (a) 
    Merchant's  or  Consultant's  failure  to  perform  any  of  their  respective  material obligations hereunder,which failure shall continue uncured seven (7) days after receipt of written notice thereof to the defaulting Party; 
       
           (b) 
    Any representation or warranty made by Merchant or Consultant is untrue in any material respect as of the date made or at any time and throughout the Sale Term; or 
       
           (c) 
    the Sale is terminated or materially interrupted or impaired for any reason other than an event of default by Consultant or Merchant. 
       
  If   a Termination Event occurs, the non-defaulting Party (in the case of an event of default) or either Party (if the Sale is otherwise terminated or materially interrupted or impaired) may, in its discretion, elect to terminate this Agreement by providing seven (7) business days' written notice thereof to the other Party and, in the case of an event of default, in addition to terminating this Agreement, pursue any and all rights and remedies and damages resulting  from such default.     If    this Agreement is terminated, Merchant shall be obligated to pay Consultant all amounts due under this Agreement through and including the termination date. 

Section  12.           Notices 
    
  All notices, certificates,  approvals,  and payments  provided   for herein  shall be sent by electronic mail as follows:  (a) To Merchant:  hebe stores, inc.,  400  Valley  Drive, Brisbane,  CA 94005 DD: 415.657.4644,  Attn:   Gary Bosch, Vice President,  Corporate   Counsel    Secretary,  and Walter Parks, President  and Chief Operating  Officer,  Email:   gbosch@bebe.com      and   wparks@bebe.com  ; (b) To Consultant:  (i) Great American  Group,  21255  Burbank  Blvd, Woodland  Hills, CA 91367, Attn: Scott Carpenter,  President,  Retail  Solutions,  and Alan N. Forman  ,    EVP    GC, Facsimile: (818) 746-9170,  Email:     scamenter@greatamerican.com          and    aforman@brileyfin.co   m  ;     and (ii) 
  T  i  ger    C  ap  i  tal   Grou  p  ,    L  LC  ,   6  0     St  a  te   S  t  ree  t  ,     l l  th floor  ,    Bost  o  n  ;-  MA    0  .2  1  09,   Attn: M  i  c  h  a  el    Mc 3ra  il  ,   Facsimile:  (617)  523-3007,  Email:    mmcgrail@tigergroup.com,         or (c) such other address  as may be designated in writing  by Merchant  or Consultant. 
    
  Section 13.        Independent  Consultant 
    
  Consultant's  relationship  to Merchant  is that of an independent   contractor without the capacity to bind Merchant   in  any  respect.    No  employer/employee,  principal/agent,  joint  venture  or  other   such relationship is created by this Agreement.  Merchant  shall have no control over the hours that Consultant or its employees or assistants or the Supervisors work or the means or manner  in which the services that will be provided are performed and Consultant is not authorized  to enter into any contracts or agreements on behalf  of Merchant or to otherwise  create  any  obligations   of  Merchant to third  parties, unless authorized in writing  to do so by Merchant. 
    
  Section  14.        Non-Assignment 
    
  Neither this Agreement  nor any of the rights hereunder  may be transferred  or assigned  by either Party without  the prior  written  consent  of the other  Party.   No  modification,   amendment  or waiver  of any of the provisions  contained  in this Agreement,   or any  future  representation,   promise  or condition  in connection  with  the  subject  matter  of  this  Agreement,    shall  be  binding  upon  any  Party  to  this Agreement  unless  made  in writing  and signed  by  a duly  authorized  representative   or agent  of such Party.    This  Agreement   shall  be  binding   upon  and  inure  to  the  benefit   of  the  Parties  and  their respective heirs  ,    legal representatives,   successors  and permitted   assigns  . 
    
  Section 15.      Severability 
    
  If any term or provision   of this Agreement,   as applied  to either  Party  or any circumstance,   for any reason  shall be declared  by a court  of competent  jurisdiction  to be invalid,  illegal,  unenforceable, inoperative  or otherwise   ineffective,   that provision   shall  be  limited  or eliminated   to the minimum extent   necessary   so  that  this  Agreement   shall   otherwise    remain   in  full  force   and  effect   and enforceable  .      If the surviving  portions  of the Agreement   fail to retain the essential  understanding   of the Parties, the Agreement  may be terminated  by mutual  consent  of the Parties. 
    
  Section 16.         Governing Law and Jun Waiver 
    
  This  Agreement  ,    and  its  validity,   construction   and  effect,   shall  be  governed   by  and  enforced   in accordance with the internal  laws of the State of California   (without  reference  to the conflicts  oflaws provisions  therein).    Merchant  and Consultant   waive  their  respective  rights  to trial  by jury  of any cause  of action,  claim,  counterclaim   or  cross-complaint    in  any  action,  proceeding   and/or  hearing 

brought  by  either   Consultant   against  Merchant   or  Merchant    against   Consultant   on  any  matter whatsoever  arising  out of  ,   or in any way  connected   with,  this Agreement,   the relationship   between Merchant and Consultant,  any claim of injury or damage  or the enforcement  of any remedy under any law, statute or regulation,  emergency  or otherwise,  now  or hereafter  in effect. 
    
  Section  17.        Entire   Agreement 
    
  This Agreement,   together  with  all additional   schedules   and  exhibits  attached  hereto,  constitutes  a single,  integrated  written   contract  expressing   the  entire   agreement   of  the  Parties  concerning   the   s  u  bje.c.t      m  atte  r,    he  r  eo  f.    _  Nn.   cov  .  enants  ,  -  agre  e  me  n  ts  ,  -  r.e  p  r  esent  a  tions  -  o  r             warra  n  ties  c  o  fc  a  ny      -  k  i  nd   whatsoever  have been made by any Party except  as specifically   set forth in this Agreement.   All prior agreements,  discussions  and negotiations  are entirely  supers  e  ded   by this Agreement. 
    
  Section  18.     Execution 
    
  This Agreement  may be executed  simultaneously   in counterparts   (including  by means  of electronic mail, facsimile or portable  document format (pdf) signature  pages)  ,    any one of which  need not contain the signatures  of more  than  one party,  but  all such  counterparts   taken  together  shall  constitute  one and  the same  instrument.   This  Agreement,   and  any  amendments   hereto,  to the  extent  signed  and delivered  by means  of electronic  mail,  a facsimile   machine   or  electronic  transmission   in portable document format  (pdf), shall be treated in all manner  and respects  as an original  thereof  and shall be considered  to have  the same  binding  legal  effects  as if  it were  the original  signed  version  thereof delivered in person. 
    
  Section  19.         Bankruptcy;   Jurisdiction;  Venue 
    
  In the event  of a bankruptcy  proc  e  eding  is commenced   by or against the Merchant,   Merchant shall immediately  file a motion  seeking  expedited  entry  of an interim  order (the "Interim  Approval Order") and a final order (the "Final Approval  Order"),   in each  case by the applicable  United  States bankruptcy  court (the "Bankruptcy  Court")  under  section  327,  328 and 365 of the Bankruptcy  Code, in form and substance  reasonably  acceptable  to Consultant,   authorizing  the Merchant's   assumption of and approving  of this Agreement.   The  Merchant   shall  use the  Merchant's   best  efforts  to ensure that  the Interim  Approval   Order  and  the  Final  Approval   Order   shall  be  entered   and  specifically provide,  among  other  things  ,    that: (i) Consultant   is being  retained  pursuant  to sections  327 and 328 of title 11,  United  States Code (the "Bankruptcy   Code")  by the Merchant;  (ii) the payment  of all fees and reimbursement   of expenses  hereunder   to  Consultant   is  approved  under  section  328(a)  of the Bankruptcy  Code  without  further  order  of the Bankruptcy   Court  and shall  be free  and clear  of all liens, claims and encumbrances;   (iii) all such payments   of fees  and reimbursement   of expenses  shall be made on a weekly  basis without further order of the Bankruptcy   Court and in accordance  with this Agreement;   (iv)  Consultant   is  not  required   to  maintain   time  records  or    file    interim or final fee applications;(v) the transaction contemplated hereby is approved and this Agreement is assumed; (vi) the Sale is authorized without the necessity of Consultant or Merchant complying with state and local rules, Jaws, ordinances  and regulations, including, without  limitation, permitting and  licensing requirements, that would otherwise govern the Sale; (vii) the Sale is authorized notwithstanding restrictions in leases, reciprocal easement agreements or other contracts that purport to restrict the Sale or the necessity of obtaining any third party consents; and (viii) Merchant and Consultant are authorized to take all further actions as are necessary  or appropriate to carry out the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Following the commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by or against 

the Merchant,  any legal action, suit or proceeding   arising  in connection  with this Agreement  shall be submitted  to the  exclusive  jurisdiction   of the Bankruptcy   Court  and each Party  hereby  waives  any defenses or objections  based  on lack of jurisdiction,    improper  venue  or forum non conveniens. 

[Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank] 

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the Consultant   and the Merchant  hereby  execute  this Agreement by their duly  authori  z  ed   representatives   as a sealed  instrument   as of the  day and  year first written above  . 

Exhibit A Store List 

bebe 
    
  DM.RD Contact List 

EXHIBIT  "B" 
    
  TO 
    
  bebe stores, inc. CONSULTING AGREEMENT 

Distribution  Center(s) 

Address: 
    
  4995 Industrial  Way 
  Benicia, CA 94510 

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.28>
 3
 exhibit10282017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.28

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10.28 

June 28, 2017 

Re: Key Employee Retention Bonus 
    
  Dear Walter: 
    
  As you are already aware, bebe stores, Inc. ( bebe  or  Company ) is conducting a reduction in force at its corporate office as a result of its decision to close its brick-and-mortar store locations nationwide.  While bebe will be terminating many employees on or before May 26, 2017, bebe would like to retain you as an employee until September 29, 2017 (the  End Date ) or earlier.   To encourage you to stay through that date, bebe is offering you the retention bonus described below.  To participate, you must sign this letter at the bottom and return it to Christian Giorgi, Director, Total Rewards, bebe stores, Inc. no later than July 5, 2017 and fully comply with its terms. 
    
  Should you accept this retention offer, we anticipate that your job will not change materially.  You will work the same hours in the same location and/or city.  You will work full time in the office.  Your base salary will not change and job duties will remain largely the same.  Of course over time your job, title, reporting relationships and other terms of employment may change, but our initial goal is to maintain stability of the organization.  You will continue to be eligible to participate in group benefit plans generally available to employees of bebe subject to satisfying any eligibility requirements and the terms and conditions of those plans.     
    
  Key Employee Retention Bonus    
    
  You will be eligible to receive a retention bonus of up to $500,000.00 ("Retention Bonus") provided that you remain employed by bebe through the End Date and provided that the conditions described below are met.   
    
  The Retention Bonus will not be earned and will not be paid if you (i) voluntarily terminate employment or (ii) are terminated for cause, prior to the date it is earned as specified in the previous paragraph.    If your employment is terminated by bebe without cause, or in the event of breach of this Retention Letter by bebe, prior to the date it is earned you will be paid the entire amount of your Retention Bonus as if you were employed through the End Date.   
    
  The terms of this Retention Letter do not impact the  at-will  status of your employment or negatively affect any severance benefits for which you may be eligible.  Either you or bebe may terminate your employment at any time with or without Cause and with or without prior notice.    
    
  If you have any questions regarding this offer letter, please feel free to contact Christian Giorgi at 400 Valley Drive, Brisbane CA, (415) 715-3900 ext.4472. 
    
  Sincerely, 
    
   e 
    
  Christian Giorgi 
  Director, Total Rewards, bebe stores, inc. 

By signing below, you certify that you have read this Retention Letter and agree with all matters stated herein.   
    
  Signed:           _____________________________________ 
    
  Print Name:      _____________________________________ 
    
  Dated:          _____________________________________ 
  
   4839-0328-5574.v3 

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.33>
 4
 exhibit10332017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.33

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10.33 

August 8, 2017 

Re: Key Employee Retention Bonus 
    
  Dear Darren: 
    
  As you are already aware, bebe stores, Inc. ( bebe  or  Company ) is conducting a reduction in force at its corporate office as a result of its decision to close its brick-and-mortar store locations nationwide.  bebe would like to retain you as an employee until December 29, 2017 (the  End Date ) or earlier.   To encourage you to stay through that date, bebe is offering you the retention bonus described below.  To participate, you must sign this letter at the bottom and return it to Christian Giorgi, Director, Total Rewards, bebe stores, Inc. no later than Aug. 18, 2017 and fully comply with its terms. 
    
  Should you accept this retention offer, we anticipate that your job will not change materially.  You will work the same hours in the same location and/or city.  You will work full time in the office.  Your base salary will not change and job duties will remain largely the same.  Of course over time your job, title, reporting relationships and other terms of employment may change, but our initial goal is to maintain stability of the organization.  You will continue to be eligible to participate in group benefit plans generally available to employees of bebe subject to satisfying any eligibility requirements and the terms and conditions of those plans.     
    
  Key Employee Retention Bonus    
    
  You will receive a retention bonus of $50,000.00 ("Retention Bonus") provided that you remain employed by bebe through the End Date and provided that the conditions described below are met: 
    Form 10K for fiscal 2017 is timely filed; and  
    Receipt of a clean audit opinion from D T, excluding any potential going concern language; and 
    You retain a new firm to perform accounting, financial reporting and tax compliance; and  
    
  The Retention Bonus will not be earned and will not be paid if you (i) voluntarily terminate employment or (ii) are terminated for cause, prior to the date it is earned as specified in the previous paragraph.    If your employment is terminated by bebe without cause, or in the event of breach of this Retention Letter by bebe, prior to the date it is earned you will be paid the entire amount of your Retention Bonus as if you were employed through the End Date.   
    
  The terms of this Retention Letter do not impact the  at-will  status of your employment or negatively affect any severance benefits for which you may be eligible.  Either you or bebe may terminate your employment at any time with or without Cause and with or without prior notice.    
    
  If you have any questions regarding this offer letter, please feel free to contact Christian Giorgi at 400 Valley Drive, Brisbane CA, (415) 715-3900 ext.4472. 
    
  Sincerely, 

Christian Giorgi 
  Director, Total Rewards, bebe stores, inc. 
  By signing below, you certify that you have read this Retention Letter and agree with all matters stated herein.   
    
  Signed:           _____________________________________ 
    
  Print Name:      _____________________________________ 
    
  Dated:          _____________________________________ 
  
   4839-0328-5574.v3 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-21.1>
 5
 exhibit2112017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 21.1 
  SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT 

Name 
       
    Domicile 
      bebe stores (Canada), inc. 
       
    California 
      bebe studio, inc. 
       
    California 
      bebe management, inc. 
       
    Virginia 
      bebe studio realty, LLC 
       
    California 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 exhibit2312017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 23.1 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-156038, 333-140589, 333-137683, 333-121588, 333-62096, and 333-65201 on Form S-8 of our report dated   September 29, 2017   relating to the consolidated financial statements of bebe stores, inc. and subsidiaries (the   Company ) (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's ability to continue as a going concern) appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of bebe stores, inc. for the fiscal year ended   July 1, 2017  . 
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP    
    
  San Francisco, California  
  September 29, 2017    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 exhibit3112017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
  I, Manny Mashouf, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of bebe stores, inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or cause such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   September 29, 2017 
                 
      /s/ MANNY MASHOUF 
      Manny Mashouf 
      Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 exhibit3122017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
  I, Walter Parks, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of bebe stores, inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 
     (a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
  (b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or cause such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
  (c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
  (d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 
     (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
  (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   September 29, 2017    
                 
      /s/ WALTER PARKS 
      Walter Parks 
  President, Chief Operating Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 exhibit3212017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of bebe stores, inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   July 1, 2017  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Manny Mashouf, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), that to the best of my knowledge: 
            (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ MANNY MASHOUF 
        
    Manny Mashouf 
       Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board 
        
    September 29, 2017 

This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and shall not, except to the extent required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 exhibit3222017070110k.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report of bebe stores, inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   July 1, 2017  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Walter Parks, President, Chief Operating Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), that to the best of my knowledge: 
            (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/  S  / WALTER PARKS 
        
    Walter Parks 
       President, Chief Operating Officer, Interim Chief Financial Officer 
        
    September 29, 2017 

This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and shall not, except to the extent required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 bebe-20170701.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 bebe-20170701.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 bebe-20170701_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 bebe-20170701_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 bebe-20170701_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 bebe-20170701_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

