<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080228_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0000950123-08-002274_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>5718694</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1585664</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>10424</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2985621</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>216</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-08-002274.hdr.sgml : 20080228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080228170118
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-08-002274
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INSURANCE AGENTS BROKERS & SERVICES [6411]
		IRS NUMBER:				134075851
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787
		FILM NUMBER:		08651479

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 PARK AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10166
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125782211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 PARK AVENUE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10166

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UOjs7fA+yOMVYzG3zSiqTfF0DBMTHP82dMeEMieQDFhkYST70VESvHg4Nx+pwXfs
 YDIqT9GxVDM7litqOS4vOg==

 0000950123-08-002274.txt : 20080228

10-K
 1
 y48170e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission file number
     001-15787  

MetLife, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par
    value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value
    $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

6.375% Common Equity Units

New York Stock Exchange

5.875% Senior Notes

New York Stock Exchange

5.375% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

5.25% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated filer

Non-accelerated filer

Smaller reporting company

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of
    June 30, 2007 was approximately $48 billion. As of
    February 25, 2008, 709,166,807 shares of the
    registrant s common stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

The information required to be furnished pursuant to part of
    Item 10, Item 11, part of Item 12, and
    Items 13 and 14 of Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    is set forth in, and is hereby incorporated by reference herein
    from, the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 22,
    2008, to be filed by the registrant with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later
    than 120 days after the year ended December 31,
    2007. 

Table Of
    Contents  

Page 

Number 

Part I  

Item 1. 

Business 

3

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

27

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

43

Item 2. 

Properties 

43

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

44

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

49

Part II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

50

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

53

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

57

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

176

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

181

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

182

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

182

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

184

Part III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

185

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

185

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

185

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

187

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

187

Part IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

188

Signatures  

189

Exhibit Index  

E-1

EX-4.3: THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE    
     EX-4.4: FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE    
     EX-10.1: FORM OF AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.3: AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT WITH WEBER    
     EX-10.13: 2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN, AS AMENDED    
     EX-10.17: 2000 DIRECTORS STOCK PLAN, AS AMENDED    
     EX-10.29: AMENDMENT TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS    
     EX-10.54: RESOLUTIONS OF THE METLIFE, INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS    
     EX-10.57: METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN    
     EX-10.63: AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
     EX-10.68: NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN    
     EX-10.70: GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTORS' DEFERRED SAVINGS PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 2002    
     EX-10.81: AMENDMENT NUMBER SIXTEEN TO THE MPTA    
     EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
     EX-21.1: SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP    
     EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION    
     EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION    

Table of Contents   

Note
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    including the Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains
    statements which constitute forward-looking statements within
    the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995, including statements relating to trends in the operations
    and financial results and the business and the products of
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, as well as other statements
    including words such as  anticipate, 
     believe,   plan,   estimate, 
     expect,   intend  and other similar
    expressions. Forward-looking statements are made based upon
    management s current expectations and beliefs concerning
    future developments and their potential effects on MetLife, Inc.
    and its subsidiaries. Such forward-looking statements are not
    guarantees of future performance. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations. 

2

Table of Contents   

Part I  

Item 1.      

Business   

As used in this
     Form 10-K, 
     MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
     our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ).

We are a leading provider of insurance and other financial
    services with operations throughout the United States and
    the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through
    our domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, we
    offer life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners
    insurance, retail banking and other financial services to
    individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and
    retirement   savings products and services to
    corporations and other institutions.

We are one of the largest insurance and financial services
    companies in the United States. Our franchises and brand names
    uniquely position us to be the preeminent provider of protection
    and savings and investment products in the United States. In
    addition, our international operations are focused on markets
    where the demand for insurance and savings and investment
    products is expected to grow rapidly in the future.

Our well-recognized brand names, leading market positions,
    competitive and innovative product offerings and financial
    strength and expertise should help drive future growth and
    enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of
    fairness, honesty and integrity.

Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the
    following specific strategies to achieve our goals:

Build on widely recognized brand names 

Capitalize on a large customer base 

Enhance capital efficiency 

Expand distribution channels 

Continue to introduce innovative and competitive products 

Focus on international operations 

Maintain balanced focus on asset accumulation and protection
    products 

Manage operating expenses commensurate with revenue growth 

Further commit to a diverse workplace 

Capitalize on retirement income needs 

We are organized into five operating segments: Institutional,
    Individual, Auto   Home, International and
    Reinsurance, as well as Corporate   Other. Revenues
    derived from any customer, or from any class of similar products
    or services, within each of these segments did not exceed 10% of
    consolidated revenues in any of the last three years. Financial
    information, including revenues, expenses, income and loss, and
    total assets by segment, is provided in Note 22 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the
    acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding
    certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup
    Inc. ( Citigroup ), and substantially all of
    Citigroup s international insurance businesses
    (collectively,  Travelers ) for $12.1 billion.
    The results of Travelers  operations were included in our
    financial statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of
    the acquisition, our management increased significantly the size
    and scale of our core insurance and annuity products and
    expanded our presence in both the retirement  
    savings  domestic and international markets. The
    distribution agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the
    acquisition provide us with one of the broadest distribution
    networks in the industry. The consideration paid by the Holding
    Company for the acquisition consisted of $11.0 billion in
    cash and 22,436,617 shares of the Holding Company s
    common stock with a market value of $1.0 billion to
    Citigroup and $100 million in other transaction costs. In
    addition to cash on-hand, the purchase price was financed
    through the

3

Table of Contents   

issuance of common stock, debt securities, common equity units
    and preferred stock. The acquisition was accounted for using the
    purchase method of accounting, which requires that the assets
    and liabilities of Travelers be measured at their fair values as
    of July 1, 2005.

Institutional  

Our Institutional segment offers a broad range of group
    insurance and retirement   savings products and
    services to corporations and other institutions and their
    respective employees. We have built a leading position in the
    U.S. group insurance market through long-standing
    relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in
    the United States.

Group insurance products and services include group life
    insurance, non-medical health insurance products and related
    administrative services, as well as other benefits and services,
    such as employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance
    provided through the Auto   Home segment and prepaid
    legal services plans. Non-medical health insurance is comprised
    of products such as accidental death and dismemberment
    ( AD D ), long-term care ( LTC ),
    short- and long-term disability, individual disability income,
    critical illness and dental insurance. We offer group insurance
    products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary benefits
    where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the employee.
    Revenues applicable to these group insurance products and
    services were $14 billion and $13 billion, in 2007 and
    2006, respectively, representing 26% and 27% of our total
    revenues in 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Our retirement   savings products and services include
    an array of annuity and investment products, including defined
    contribution plans, guaranteed interest products and other
    stable value products, accumulation and income annuities, and
    separate account contracts for the investment management of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. Revenues
    applicable to our retirement   savings products were
    $8 billion and $7 billion in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, representing 15% of our total revenues in both
    2007 and 2006.

Marketing
    and Distribution   

Our Institutional segment markets our products and services
    through sales forces, comprised of MetLife employees, for both
    our group insurance and retirement   savings lines.

We distribute our group insurance products and services through
    a sales force that is segmented by the size of the target
    customer. Marketing representatives sell either directly to
    corporate and other institutional customers or through an
    intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Voluntary products
    are sold through the same sales channels, as well as by
    specialists for these products. Employers have been emphasizing
    such voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our
    focus on communicating and marketing to such employees in order
    to further foster sales of those products. As of
    December 31, 2007, the group insurance sales channels had
    398 marketing representatives, which represented an increase of
    10% from 363 marketing representatives in the prior year.

Our retirement   savings organization markets
    retirement, savings, investment and payout annuity products and
    services to sponsors and advisors of benefit plans of all sizes.
    These products and services are offered to private and public
    pension plans, collective bargaining units, nonprofit
    organizations, recipients of structured settlements and the
    current and retired members of these and other institutions.

We distribute retirement   savings products and
    services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers
    located in 15 offices around the country. In addition, the
    retirement   savings organization works with the
    distribution channels in the Individual segment and in the group
    insurance area to better reach and service customers, brokers,
    consultants and other intermediaries.

We have entered into several joint ventures and other
    arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and
    distribution opportunities of institutional products and
    services. We also seek to sell our institutional products and
    services through sponsoring organizations and affinity groups.
    For example, we are the provider of LTC products for the
    National Long-Term Care Coalition, a group of some of the
    nation s largest employers. In addition, the Company,
    together with John Hancock Financial Services, Inc., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Manulife Financial Corporation, is a
    provider for the Federal Long-Term Care Insurance program. The
    program, available to

4

Table of Contents   

most federal employees and their families, is the largest
    employer-sponsored LTC insurance program in the country based on
    the number of enrollees. In addition, we also provide life and
    dental coverage to federal employees.

Group
    Insurance Products and Services   

Our group insurance products and services include:

Group Life.   Group life insurance products and
    services include group term life (both employer-paid basic life
    and employee-paid supplemental life), group universal life,
    group variable universal life, dependent life and survivor
    income benefits. These products and services are offered as
    standard products or may be tailored to meet specific customer
    needs. This category also includes specialized life insurance
    products designed specifically to provide solutions for
    non-qualified benefit and retiree benefit funding purposes.

Non-Medical Health.   Non-medical health
    insurance consists of short- and long-term disability,
    individual disability income, critical illness, LTC, dental and
    AD D coverages. We also sell excess risk and administrative
    services-only arrangements to some employers.

Other Products and Services.   Other products
    and services include employer-sponsored auto and homeowners
    insurance provided through the Auto   Home segment and
    prepaid legal plans.

Retirement  
    Savings Products and Services   

Our retirement   savings products and services include:

Guaranteed Interest and Stable Value
    Products.   We offer guaranteed interest contracts
    ( GICs ), including separate account GICs, funding
    agreements and similar products.

Accumulation and Income Annuities.   We also
    sell fixed and variable annuity products, generally in
    connection with the termination of pension plans or the funding
    of structured settlements. Annuity products include single
    premium buyouts, terminal funding contracts and structured
    settlement annuities.

Other Retirement   Savings Products and
    Services.   Other retirement   savings
    products and services include separate account contracts for the
    investment management of defined benefit and defined
    contribution plan assets on behalf of corporations and other
    institutions.

Individual  

Our Individual segment offers a wide variety of protection and
    asset accumulation products aimed at serving the financial needs
    of our customers throughout their entire life cycle. Products
    offered by Individual include insurance products, such as
    traditional, variable and universal life insurance, and variable
    and fixed annuities. In addition, Individual sales
    representatives distribute disability insurance and LTC
    insurance products offered through the Institutional segment,
    investment products such as mutual funds, as well as other
    products offered by our other businesses. Individual s
    principal distribution channels are the agency distribution
    group and the independent distribution group. Individual also
    distributes products through several additional distribution
    channels, including Walnut Street Securities, Inc. ( Walnut
    Street Securities ), MetLife Resources, Tower Square
    Securities, Inc. ( Tower Square Securities ) and Texas
    Life Insurance Company ( Texas Life ). In total,
    Individual had approximately 11,200 active sales representatives
    at December 31, 2007, which represented an increase of 2%
    from approximately 11,000 active sales representatives in the
    prior year.

Our broadly recognized brand names and strong distribution
    channels have allowed us to become the second largest provider
    of individual life insurance and annuities in the United States,
    with $18 billion of total statutory individual life and
    annuity premiums and deposits through September 30, 2007,
    the latest period for which OneSource, a database that
    aggregates United States insurance company statutory financial
    statements, is available. According to research performed by the
    Life Insurance Marketing and Research Association
    ( LIMRA ), based on sales through September 30,
    2007, we are the sixth largest issuer of individual variable
    life insurance in the United States and the ninth largest issuer
    of all individual life insurance products in the United States.
    In addition, according to research done by LIMRA and based on
    new annuity deposits through September 30, 2007, we are the
    second largest annuity writer in the United States.

5

Table of Contents   

During the period from 2003 to 2007, our first year statutory
    deposits for life products increased at a compound annual growth
    rate of approximately 6%. Life deposits represented
    approximately 32% and 33% of total statutory premiums and
    deposits for Individual in 2007 and 2006, respectively. During
    the period from 2003 to 2007, the statutory deposits for annuity
    products increased at a compound annual growth rate of
    approximately 10%. Annuity deposits represented approximately
    68% and 67% of total statutory premiums and deposits for
    Individual in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Individual had
    $15.6 billion and $14.5 billion of total revenues, or
    29% and 30% of our total revenues, in 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Marketing
    and Distribution   

Our Individual segment targets the large middle-income market,
    as well as affluent individuals, owners of small businesses and
    executives of small- to medium-sized companies. We have been
    successful in selling our products in various multi-cultural
    markets. Individual products are distributed nationwide through
    multiple channels, with the primary distribution systems being
    the agency distribution group and the independent distribution
    group.

Agency Distribution Group.   The agency
    distribution group is comprised of two channels, the MetLife
    Distribution Channel, a career agency system, and the New
    England Financial Distribution Channel, a general agency system.

MetLife Distribution Channel.   The MetLife
    Distribution Channel had 6,243 agents under contract in
    98 agencies at December 31, 2007 as compared to 5,968
    agents under contract in 102 agencies at December 31, 2006.
    The career agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income
    and affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We
    support our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted
    advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature
    written in various languages. Multi-cultural markets represented
    36% and 35% of the MetLife Distribution Channel s
    individual life sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
    average face amount of a life insurance policy sold through the
    MetLife Distribution Channel was $349,000 in 2007 as compared to
    $313,000 in 2006.

Agents in the career agency system are full-time MetLife common
    law  and/or 
    statutory employees who are compensated primarily based upon
    sales in compliance with the limitations imposed by New York
    State Insurance Law Section 4228. These career agents are
    also eligible to receive certain benefits. Agents in the career
    agency system are not authorized to sell other insurers 
    products without our approval. At December 31, 2007, 93% of
    the agents in the career agency sales force were licensed to
    sell one or more of the following products: variable life
    insurance, variable annuities and mutual funds.

From 2006 through 2007, the number of agents under contract in
    the MetLife Distribution Channel s career agency sales
    force increased from 5,968 to 6,243. The increase in the number
    of agents is due to improving retention which, in turn, drives
    increased productivity. From 2003 through 2007, the career
    agency system increased productivity, with net sales credits per
    agent, an industry measure for agent productivity, growing at a
    compound annual rate of 4%.

New England Financial Distribution
    Channel.   The New England Financial Distribution
    Channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.
    The average face amount of a life insurance policy sold through
    the New England Financial Distribution Channel was $572,000 in
    2007 as compared to $561,000 in 2006.

At December 31, 2007, the New England Financial
    Distribution Channel included 46 general agencies providing
    support to 2,155 agents and a network of independent brokers
    throughout the United States. The compensation of agents who are
    independent contractors and general agents who have exclusive
    contracts with New England Financial is based on sales, although
    general agents are also provided with an allowance for benefits
    and other expenses. At December 31, 2007, 92% of New
    England Financial s agents were licensed to sell one or
    more of the following products: variable life insurance,
    variable annuities and mutual funds.

Independent Distribution Group.   During 2005,
    the independent distribution group was expanded to include
    Travelers distribution, as well as General American Financial
    and the MetLife Investors Group. Within the independent
    distribution group there are three wholesaler organizations,
    including the coverage and point of sale

6

Table of Contents   

models for risk-based products, and the annuity wholesale model
    for accumulation-based products. Both the coverage and point of
    sale model wholesalers distribute universal life, variable
    universal life, traditional life, LTC and disability income
    products. The annuity model wholesalers distribute both fixed
    and variable deferred annuities, as well as income annuities. We
    intend to continue to grow existing distribution relationships
    and acquire new relationships in the coverage, point of sale and
    annuity channels by capitalizing on an experienced management
    team, leveraging the MetLife brand and resources, and developing
    high service, low cost operations while continuing the
    distribution of other MetLife products.

Coverage Model.   The coverage model wholesalers
    sell universal life, variable universal life, traditional life,
    LTC and disability insurance products and related financial
    services to high net worth individuals and small- to
    medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies,
    financial advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and
    other independent marketing organizations under contractual
    arrangements. These agencies and individuals are independent
    contractors who are generally responsible for the expenses of
    operating their agencies, including office and overhead
    expenses, and the recruiting, selection, contracting, training,
    and development of agents and brokers in their agencies. The
    wholesalers direct sales and recruiting efforts from a
    nationwide network of regional offices. As of December 31,
    2007 and 2006, the coverage model s sales force included 16
    and 25 wholesalers, respectively.

Point of Sale Model.   The point of sale model
    wholesalers sell universal life, variable universal life,
    traditional life, LTC and disability income products through
    financial intermediaries, including regional broker-dealers,
    brokerage firms, financial planners and banks. As of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were 38 and 54 regional
    point of sale model wholesalers, respectively.

Annuity Model.   The annuity model wholesalers
    sell individual fixed and variable deferred annuities, as well
    as income annuity products through financial intermediaries,
    including regional broker-dealers, New York Stock Exchange
    ( NYSE ) brokerage firms, financial planners and
    banks. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were 127 and
    132 regional annuity model wholesalers, respectively.

Additional Distribution Channels.   The
    Individual segment also distributes our individual insurance and
    investment products through several additional affiliated
    distribution channels, including Walnut Street Securities, Tower
    Square Securities, Texas Life and MetLife Resources.

Walnut Street Securities.   Walnut Street
    Securities, a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., is an affiliated
     broker-dealer 
    that markets variable life insurance and variable annuity
    products, as well as mutual funds and other securities, through
    827 independent registered representatives as of
    December 31, 2007.

Tower Square Securities.   Tower Square
    Securities, a subsidiary of MetLife, Inc., is an affiliated
     broker-dealer 
    that markets variable life insurance and variable annuity
    products, as well as mutual funds and other securities, through
    524 independent registered representatives as of
    December 31, 2007.

Texas Life.   Texas Life, a subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc., markets whole life and universal life insurance
    products under the Texas Life name through 1,191 active
    independent insurance brokers as of December 31, 2007.
    These brokers are independent contractors who sell insurance for
    Texas Life on a non-exclusive basis. A number of MetLife career
    agents also market Texas Life products. Texas Life sells
    universal life insurance policies with low cash values that are
    marketed through the use of brochures, as well as payroll
    deduction life insurance products.

MetLife Resources.   MetLife Resources, a
    focused distribution channel of MetLife, markets retirement,
    annuity and other financial products on a national basis through
    698 agents and independent brokers as of December 31, 2007.
    MetLife Resources targets the nonprofit, educational and
    healthcare markets.

Products   

We offer a wide variety of individual insurance, as well as
    annuities and investment-type products, aimed at serving our
    customers  financial needs throughout their entire life
    cycle.

7

Table of Contents   

Insurance
    Products  

Our individual insurance products include variable life
    products, universal life products, traditional life products,
    including whole life and term life, and other individual
    products, including individual disability and LTC insurance.

We continually review and update our products. We have
    introduced new products and features designed to increase the
    competitiveness of our portfolio and the flexibility of our
    products to meet the broad range of asset accumulation,
    life-cycle protection and distribution needs of our customers.

Variable Life.   Variable life products provide
    insurance coverage through a contract that gives the
    policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on
    the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with
    certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life
    products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the
    policyholder into a variety of separate accounts or directed to
    the Company s general account. In the separate accounts,
    the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment
    results. We collect specified fees for the management of these
    various investment accounts and any net return is credited
    directly to the policyholder s account. In some instances,
    third-party money management firms manage investment accounts
    that support variable insurance products. With some products, by
    maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the
    advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death
    benefit from adverse investment experience.

Universal Life.   Universal life products
    provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life,
    except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances,
    are allocated only to the Company s general account.
    Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
    decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of
    the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of
    premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained
    for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
    expenses and interest, at interest rates we determine, subject
    to specified minimums. Specific charges are made against the
    policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection
    and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain
    premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.

Whole Life.   Whole life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for
    the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined
    period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
    the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be
    level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule.
    Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a
    participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders
    may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death
    benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or
    reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
    Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder,
    this group of products provides significant flexibility to
    individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs
    and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed
    benefits.

Term Life.   Term life provides a guaranteed
    benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time
    period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Specified
    coverage periods range from one year to 20 years, but in no
    event are they longer than the period over which premiums are
    paid. Death benefits may be level over the period or decreasing.
    Decreasing coverage is used principally to provide for loan
    repayment in the event of death. Premiums may be guaranteed at a
    level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and
    non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are sometimes referred
    to as pure protection products, in that there are typically no
    savings or investment elements. Term contracts expire without
    value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party
    is still living.

Other Individual Products.   Individual
    disability products provide a benefit in the event of the
    disability of the insured. In most instances, this benefit is in
    the form of monthly income paid until the insured reaches
    age 65. In addition to income replacement, the product may
    be used to provide for the payment of business overhead expenses
    for disabled business owners or mortgage payment protection.

Our LTC insurance provides a fixed benefit for certain costs
    associated with nursing home care and other services that may be
    provided to individuals unable to perform certain activities of
    daily living.

8

Table of Contents   

In addition to these products, our Individual segment supports a
    group of low face amount life insurance policies, known as
    industrial policies, that its agents sold until 1964.

Annuities
    and Investment Products  

We offer a variety of individual annuities and investment
    products, including variable and fixed annuities, and mutual
    funds and securities.

Variable Annuities.   We offer variable
    annuities for both asset accumulation and asset distribution
    needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make
    deposits into various investment accounts, as determined by the
    contractholder. The investment accounts are separate accounts
    and risks associated with such investments are borne entirely by
    the contractholder. In certain variable annuity products,
    contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of
    their account to the Company s general account and are
    credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to certain
    minimums. In addition, contractholders may also elect certain
    minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for
    which additional fees are charged.

Fixed Annuities.   Fixed annuities are used for
    both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed
    annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided
    by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the
    preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made
    into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the
    Company s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited
    interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited
    periods of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income
    annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
    period of years
     and/or  for
    the life of the annuitant.

Mutual Funds and Securities.   Through our
    broker-dealer affiliates, we offer a full range of mutual funds
    and other securities products.

Auto  
    Home  

Auto   Home, operating through Metropolitan Property
    and Casualty Insurance Company and its subsidiaries
    ( MPC ), offers personal lines property and casualty
    insurance directly to employees at their employer s
    worksite, as well as to individuals through a variety of retail
    distribution channels, including the agency distribution group,
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists and direct
    response marketing. Auto   Home primarily sells auto
    insurance, which represented 71% of Auto   Home s
    total net earned premiums in 2007, and homeowners and other
    insurance, which represented 29% of Auto   Home s
    total net earned premiums in 2007.

Products   

Auto   Home s insurance products include auto,
    homeowners, renters, condominium and dwelling, and other
    personal lines.

Auto Coverages.   Auto insurance policies
    include coverages for private passenger automobiles, utility
    automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or
    classic automobiles and trailers. Auto   Home offers
    traditional coverages such as liability, uninsured motorist, no
    fault or personal injury protection and collision and
    comprehensive.

Homeowners and Other Coverages.   Homeowners
    insurance provides protection for homeowners, renters,
    condominium owners and residential landlords against losses
    arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide
    variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising
    from ownership or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal
    excess liability (protection against losses in excess of amounts
    covered by other liability insurance policies), and coverages
    for recreational vehicles and boat owners.

Traditional insurance policies for dwellings represent the
    majority of Auto   Home s homeowners policies
    providing protection for loss on a  replacement cost 
    basis. These policies provide additional coverage for
    reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders
    that have been displaced from their homes.

9

Table of Contents   

Marketing
    and Distribution   

Personal lines auto and homeowners insurance products are
    directly marketed to employees at their employer s
    worksite. Auto   Home products are also marketed and
    sold to individuals by the agency distribution group,
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists and
    through a direct response channel.

Employer
    Worksite Programs   

Auto   Home is a leading provider of auto and
    homeowners products offered to employees at their
    employer s worksite. Net earned premiums increased by
    $27 million, or 3%, to $1.0 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year. At
    December 31, 2007, approximately 2,100 employers offered
    MetLife Auto   Home products to their employees.

Institutional marketing representatives market the
    Auto   Home program to employers through a variety of
    means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to MetLife
    group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife
    commences marketing efforts to employees. Employees who are
    interested in the auto and homeowners products can call a
    toll-free number to request a quote, to purchase coverage and to
    request payroll deduction over the telephone. Auto  
    Home has also developed proprietary software that permits an
    employee in most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance
    through Auto   Home s Internet website.

Retail
    Distribution Channels   

We market and sell Auto   Home products through the
    agency distribution group, independent agents, property and
    casualty specialists and through a direct response channel. In
    recent years, we have increased the number of agency
    distribution group career agents and independent agents
    appointed to sell these products.

Agency Distribution Group Career Agency
    System.   The agency distribution group career
    agency system had approximately 1,720 agents at
    December 31, 2007, that sold Auto   Home
    insurance products, representing an 8% increase from 1,600
    agents in the prior year.

Independent Agencies.   At December 31,
    2007, Auto   Home maintained contracts with more than
    4,500 agencies and brokers, representing a 5% increase of 200
    agencies.

Property and Casualty Specialists.   At
    December 31, 2007, Auto   Home had 600
    specialists located in 37 states as compared to 648
    specialists located in 35 states in the prior year.
    Auto   Home s strategy is to utilize property and
    casualty specialists, who are Auto   Home employees,
    in geographic markets that are underserved by MetLife career
    agents.

Other Distribution Channels.   Auto  
    Home also utilizes a direct response marketing channel which
    permits sales to be generated through sources such as target
    mailings, career agent referrals and the Internet.

In 2007, Auto   Home s business was concentrated
    in the following states, as measured by net earned premiums: New
    York $375 million, or 12.7%; Massachusetts
    $340 million, or 11.5%; Illinois $202 million, or
    6.8%; Florida $196 million, or 6.6%; Connecticut
    $138 million, or 4.6%; and Minnesota $114 million, or
    3.8%.

Claims   

At December 31, 2007, Auto   Home s claims
    department included approximately 2,000 employees located
    in Auto   Home s Warwick, Rhode Island home
    office, 11 field claim offices, 6 in-house counsel offices,
    drive-in inspection sites and other sites throughout the United
    States. These employees included claim adjusters, appraisers,
    attorneys, managers, medical specialists, investigators,
    customer service representatives, claim financial analysts and
    support staff. Claim adjusters, representing the majority of
    employees, investigate, evaluate and settle over 675,000 claims
    annually, principally by telephone.

International  

International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities and
    retirement   savings products to both individuals and
    groups. We focus on emerging markets primarily within

10

Table of Contents   

the Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. We operate
    in international markets through subsidiaries and joint
    ventures. The acquisition of Travelers in 2005 added operations
    in the following markets: Australia, Belgium, Japan, Poland and
    the United Kingdom; as well as in markets in which we had
    already operated: Argentina, Brazil, Hong Kong, India and China.
    See  Risk Factors   Fluctuations in Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could
    Negatively Affect Our Profitability,  and  Risk
    Factors   Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability,  and
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Latin
    America   

We operate in the Latin America region in the following
    countries: Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. The
    operations in Mexico, Chile and Argentina represented 88% of the
    total premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The Mexican operation is the largest
    life insurance company in both the individual and group
    businesses in Mexico. The Chilean operation is the third largest
    annuity company in Chile, based on market share. The Chilean
    operation also offers individual life insurance and group
    insurance products. The Argentinean operation is the second
    largest pension company in the market, based on employee
    contributions. The Argentinean operation actively markets
    individual life insurance, group insurance products and credit
    life coverage.

Europe   

We operate in Europe in the following countries: the United
    Kingdom, Belgium, Poland and Ireland. The results of our
    operation in India are also included in this region. The
    operation in the United Kingdom represented 56% of the total
    premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The United Kingdom operation underwrites
    risk in its home market and 14 other countries across Europe,
    offering credit insurance and personal accident coverage.

Asia
    Pacific   

We operate in the Asia Pacific region in the following
    countries: South Korea, Taiwan, Australia, Japan, Hong Kong and
    China. The operations in South Korea and Taiwan represented 78%
    of the total premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. The South Korean operation offers
    individual life insurance, annuities, retirement  
    savings and non-medical health products, as well as group
    retirement products. The Taiwanese operation offers individual
    life, accident and health, personal travel insurance products
    and annuities, as well as group life and group accident and
    health insurance products. In 2007, we completed the sale of our
    Australia annuities and pension businesses to a third party. The
    Japanese operation offers fixed and guaranteed variable
    annuities and variable life products. The Japanese operation is
    not included in total premiums and fees but is included as a
    component of our net investment income. Also in 2007, we
    acquired the remaining 50% interest in a joint venture in Hong
    Kong resulting in the joint venture becoming a consolidated
    subsidiary.

Reinsurance  

Our Reinsurance segment is comprised of the life reinsurance
    business of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated
    ( RGA ), a publicly traded company (NYSE: RGA). At
    December 31, 2007, our ownership in RGA was approximately
    52%.

RGA s operations in North America are its largest and
    include operations of its Canadian and U.S. subsidiaries.
    In addition to these operations, RGA has subsidiary companies,
    branch offices, or representative offices in Australia,
    Barbados, Bermuda, China, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
    Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, South
    Korea, Spain, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.

In addition to its life reinsurance business, RGA provides
    reinsurance of asset-intensive products, critical illness and
    financial reinsurance. RGA and its predecessor, the reinsurance
    division of General American Life Insurance Company
    ( GALIC ), have been engaged in the business of life
    reinsurance since 1973. As of December 31, 2007, RGA had
    $22 billion and $2.1 trillion in consolidated assets and
    worldwide life reinsurance in-force, respectively.

11

Table of Contents   

RGA s
    Products and Services   

RGA s operational segments are segregated primarily by
    geographic region: United States, Canada, Asia Pacific and
    Europe   South Africa, as well as
    Corporate   Other. The U.S. operations, which
    represented 59% of RGA s 2007 net premiums, provide
    traditional life, asset-intensive products and financial
    reinsurance to domestic clients. Traditional life reinsurance
    involves RGA indemnifying another insurance company for all or a
    portion of the insurance risk, primarily mortality risk, it has
    written. Asset-intensive products primarily include the
    reinsurance of corporate-owned life insurance and annuities.
    Financial reinsurance involves assisting RGA s clients
    (other insurance companies) in managing their regulatory capital
    or in achieving other financial goals. The Canadian operations,
    which represented 10% of RGA s 2007 net premiums,
    primarily provide insurers with traditional life reinsurance.
    The Asia Pacific and Europe   South Africa operations,
    which represented, collectively, 31% of RGA s 2007 net
    premiums, provide primarily traditional life and critical
    illness reinsurance and, to a lesser extent, financial
    reinsurance. Traditional life reinsurance pays upon the death of
    the insured and critical illness coverage provides a benefit
    upon the diagnosis of a pre-defined illness.

Corporate  
    Other  

Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not
    allocated to the business segments, various
     start-up 
    entities, including MetLife Bank, National Association
    ( MetLife Bank  or  MetLife Bank, N.A. ), a
    national bank, and run-off entities, as well as interest expense
    related to the majority of our outstanding debt and expenses
    associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit
    issues. Corporate   Other also includes the
    elimination of all intersegment amounts, which generally relate
    to intersegment loans, which bear interest rates commensurate
    with related borrowings, as well as intersegment transactions.

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined
    amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when
    a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes
    disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to
    provide for future annuity payments. We compute the amounts for
    actuarial liabilities reported in our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ).

In establishing actuarial liabilities for life and non-medical
    health insurance policies and annuity contracts, we distinguish
    between short duration and long duration contracts. Short
    duration contracts generally relate to group term life,
    non-medical health and property and casualty insurance. Long
    duration contracts primarily consist of traditional whole life,
    guaranteed renewable term life, universal life, annuities,
    individual disability income and LTC.

The actuarial liability for short duration contracts consists of
    gross unearned premiums, the amount of the payments on pending
    and approved claims, and the amount of incurred but not reported
    claims as of the valuation date. We determine actuarial
    liabilities for long duration contracts using assumptions based
    on experience, plus a margin for adverse deviation for these
    policies.

The liability for future policy benefits for participating
    traditional life insurance is the net level reserve using the
    policy s guaranteed mortality rates and the dividend fund
    interest rate or nonforfeiture interest rate, as applicable.

Actuarial liabilities for term life, non-participating whole
    life, individual disability income, LTC and limited pay
    contracts, such as single premium immediate individual
    annuities, structured settlement annuities and certain group
    pension annuities are equal to the present value of future
    benefit payments and related expenses less the present value of
    future net premiums plus premium deficiency reserves, if any.
    For limited pay contracts, we also defer the excess of the gross
    premium over the net premium and recognize such excess into
    income in a constant relationship with insurance in-force for
    life insurance contracts and in relation to anticipated future
    benefit payments for annuity contracts.

We also establish actuarial liabilities for future policy
    benefits (associated with base policies and riders, unearned
    mortality charges and future disability benefits), for other
    policyholder liabilities (associated with

12

Table of Contents   

unearned revenues and claims payable) and for unearned revenue
    (the unamortized portion of front-end loads charged). We also
    establish liabilities for minimum benefit guarantees relating to
    certain annuity contracts and secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantees relating to certain life policies.

Liabilities for investment-type and universal life-type products
    primarily consist of policyholder account balances.
    Investment-type products include individual annuity contracts in
    the accumulation phase and certain group pension contracts that
    have limited or no mortality risk. Universal life-type products
    consist of universal and variable life contracts and contain
    group pension contracts. For universal life-type contracts with
    front-end loads, we defer the charge and amortize the unearned
    revenue using the product s estimated gross profits.

The Auto   Home segment establishes actuarial
    liabilities to account for the estimated ultimate costs of
    losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been
    reported but not yet settled, and claims incurred but not
    reported. It bases unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses on:

case estimates for losses reported on direct business, adjusted
    in the aggregate for ultimate loss expectations;

estimates of incurred but not reported losses based upon past
    experience;

estimates of losses on insurance assumed primarily from
    involuntary market mechanisms; and

estimates of future expenses to be incurred in settlement of
    claims.

For the Auto   Home segment, we deduct estimated
    amounts of salvage and subrogation from unpaid losses and loss
    adjustment expenses. Implicit in all these estimates are
    underlying assumptions about rates of inflation because we
    determine all estimates using expected amounts to be paid. We
    derive estimates for the development of reported claims and for
    incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial
    analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development
    for each line of business. Similarly, we derive estimates of
    unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial
    analyses of historical development patterns of the relationship
    of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business.
    We anticipate ultimate recoveries from salvage and subrogation
    principally on the basis of historical recovery patterns. We
    calculate and record a single best estimate liability, in
    conformance with GAAP, for reported losses and for incurred but
    not reported losses. We aggregate these estimates to form the
    liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheets.

Pursuant to state insurance laws, the Holding Company s
    insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as
    liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective
    policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts
    sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken
    together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed
    rates. Statutory reserves generally differ from actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits determined using GAAP.

The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain
    MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance (the  Superintendent ) or other state
    insurance departments, with each annual report, an opinion and
    memorandum of a  qualified actuary  that the statutory
    reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of
    specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such
    statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, make adequate
    provision for their statutory liabilities with respect to these
    obligations. See    Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation   Policy and Contract Reserve
    Sufficiency Analysis. 

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of its actuarial
    liabilities, we cannot precisely determine the amounts we will
    ultimately pay with respect to these actuarial liabilities, and
    the ultimate amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when payments may not occur until well into the
    future.

However, we believe our actuarial liabilities for future
    benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to
    be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates
    of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them
    with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent
    permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future
    expected experience differs from assumptions used in the
    development of actuarial liabilities.

We have experienced, and will likely in the future experience,
    catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism that may have
    an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition. Catastrophes can be

13

Table of Contents   

caused by various events, including pandemics, hurricanes,
    windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe
    winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and
    blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing,
    severity or amount of catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we
    make broad use of catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance
    to manage risk from these perils.

Underwriting
    and Pricing  

Institutional,
    Individual and International   

Our underwriting for the Institutional and Individual segments
    involves an evaluation of applications for life, disability,
    dental, critical illness, retirement   savings, and
    LTC insurance products and services by a professional staff of
    underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the
    amount of risk that we are willing to accept. Within the
    International segment, similar products described above are
    offered to individual and institutional customers, as well as
    credit insurance and in a limited number of countries major
    medical products are offered. We employ detailed underwriting
    policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the
    underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks before issuing
    policies to qualified applicants or groups.

Individual underwriting considers not only an applicant s
    medical history, but also other factors such as financial
    profiles, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and
    tobacco use. Our group underwriters generally evaluate the risk
    characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with
    certain voluntary products, employees may be underwritten on an
    individual basis. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any
    risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or group of
    policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for coverage
    are reviewed on their merits and generally a policy is not
    issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined and
    approved for underwriting. We generally perform our own
    underwriting; however, certain policies are reviewed by
    intermediaries under strict guidelines established by us.

To maintain high standards of underwriting quality and
    consistency, we engage in a multi-level series of ongoing
    internal underwriting audits, and are subject to external audits
    by our reinsurers, at both our remote underwriting offices and
    our corporate underwriting office.

We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting
    process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of
    our customers, while supporting our financial strength and
    business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting,
    mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in
    our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
    establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and
    strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer,
    the agent and us.

Pricing for the Institutional, Individual and International
    segments reflects our insurance underwriting standards. Product
    pricing of insurance products is based on the expected payout of
    benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for
    mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment
    returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as
    inflation. Product specifications are designed to mitigate the
    risks of greater than expected mortality, and we periodically
    monitor mortality and morbidity assumptions.

Investment-oriented products are priced based on various
    factors, which may include investment return, expenses,
    persistency and optionality.

Pricing for certain products in the Institutional segment and
    the institutional business sold within the International segment
    is experience rated. We employ both prospective and
    retrospective experience rating. Prospective experience rating
    involves the evaluation of past experience for the purpose of
    determining future premium rates. Retrospective experience
    rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining the actual cost of providing insurance
    for the customer for the period of time in question.

We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. Decisions are
    based on established actuarial pricing and risk selection
    principles to ensure that our underwriting and pricing
    guidelines are appropriate.

14

Table of Contents   

Auto  
    Home   

Auto   Home s underwriting function has six
    principal aspects:

evaluating potential worksite marketing employer accounts and
    independent agencies;

establishing guidelines for the binding of risks;

reviewing coverage bound by agents;

underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis,
    presented by agents outside the scope of their binding authority;

pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable
    Auto   Home to issue a policy within our
    guidelines; and

ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates
    commensurate with risk.

Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of
    Auto   Home s distribution channels, as well as
    in our Institutional segment, have binding authority for risks
    which fall within Auto   Home s published
    underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting
    guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting
    department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call
    the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the
    risk themselves. In most states, Auto   Home generally
    has the right within a specified period (usually the first
    60 days) to cancel any policy.

Auto   Home establishes prices for its major lines of
    insurance based on its proprietary database, rather than relying
    on rating bureaus. Auto   Home determines prices in
    part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The
    pricing of personal lines insurance products takes into account,
    among other things, the expected frequency and severity of
    losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of
    acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and
    other administrative and overhead costs), competitive factors
    and profit considerations.

The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include
    characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and
    model or construction type, characteristics of insureds, such as
    driving record and loss experience, and the insured s
    personal financial management. Auto   Home s
    ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory
    oversight.

As a condition of our license to do business in each state,
    Auto   Home, like all other automobile insurers, is
    required to write or share the cost of private passenger
    automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who would
    otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This
     involuntary  market, also called the  shared
    market,  is governed by the applicable laws and regulations
    of each state, and policies written in this market are generally
    written at rates higher than standard rates.

Reinsurance   

Reinsurance is written on a facultative basis or an automatic
    treaty basis. Facultative reinsurance is individually
    underwritten by the reinsurer for each policy to be reinsured,
    considering factors deemed appropriate by the reinsurer. An
    automatic reinsurance treaty provides that risks will be ceded
    on specified blocks of business where the underlying policies
    meet the criteria specified in the reinsurance treaty. In
    contrast to facultative reinsurance, the reinsurer does not
    approve each individual risk for automatic reinsurance.
    Automatic reinsurance treaties generally provide that the
    reinsurer will be liable for a portion of the risk associated
    with specified policies written by the ceding company.

Reinsurance
    Activity  

In addition to the activity of the Reinsurance segment, which
    assumes insurance risk from other insurers, we cede premiums to
    other insurers under various agreements that cover individual
    risks, group risks or defined blocks of business, primarily on a
    coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or catastrophe excess
    basis. These reinsurance agreements spread the risk and minimize
    the effect of losses. The amount of each risk retained by us
    depends on our evaluation of the specific risk, subject, in
    certain circumstances, to maximum limits based on the

15

Table of Contents   

characteristics of coverages. We also cede first dollar
    mortality risk under certain contracts. We obtain reinsurance
    when capital requirements and the economic terms of the
    reinsurance make it appropriate to do so. Within the Reinsurance
    segment, RGA utilizes retrocessional reinsurance treaties as
    part of its overall mortality risk management program. In the
    normal course of business, RGA seeks to limit its exposure to
    loss on any single insured and to recover a portion of benefits
    paid by ceding reinsurance to other insurance enterprises or
    retrocessionaires under excess coverage and coinsurance
    contracts. Additionally, RGA systematically reduces its
    retention on certain treaties utilizing a number of retrocession
    arrangements whereby certain business in-force is retroceded on
    an automatic or facultative basis. RGA also retrocedes most of
    its financial reinsurance business to other insurance companies
    to alleviate statutory capital requirements created by this
    business.

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer
    agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event the
    claim is paid. However, we remain liable to our policyholders
    with respect to ceded reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable
    to meet its obligations under these agreements. Since we bear
    the risk of nonpayment by one or more of our reinsurers, we
    primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated
    reinsurers. Within the Reinsurance segment, RGA has never
    experienced a material default in connection with retrocession
    arrangements, nor has it experienced any material difficulty in
    collecting claims recoverable from retrocessionaires; however,
    no assurance can be given as to the future performance of such
    retrocessionaires or as to the recoverability of any such claims.

Individual   

Our life insurance operations participate in reinsurance
    activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large
    risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. We
    have historically reinsured the mortality risk on new individual
    life insurance policies primarily on an excess of retention
    basis or a quota share basis. Until 2005, we reinsured up to 90%
    of the mortality risk for all new individual life insurance
    policies that we wrote through our various franchises. This
    practice was initiated by the different franchises for different
    products starting at various points in time between 1992 and
    2000. During 2005, we changed our retention practices for
    certain individual life insurance policies. Amounts reinsured in
    prior years remain reinsured under the original reinsurance;
    however, under the new retention guidelines, we reinsure up to
    90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most
    new individual life insurance policies that we write through our
    various franchises and for certain individual life policies the
    retention strategy remained unchanged. On a case by case basis,
    we may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100%
    of amounts in excess of our retention limits. We evaluate our
    reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our
    retention at any time. In addition, we reinsure a significant
    portion of the mortality risk on our individual universal life
    policies issued since 1983. Placement of reinsurance is done
    primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis
    for risks with specific characteristics.

In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described above, we
    reinsure other risks, as well as specific coverages. We
    routinely reinsure certain classes of risks in order to limit
    our exposure to particular travel, avocation and lifestyle
    hazards. We have exposure to catastrophes, which could
    contribute to significant fluctuations in our results of
    operations. We use excess of retention and quota share
    reinsurance arrangements to provide greater diversification of
    risk and minimize exposure to larger risks.

We reinsure our business through a diversified group of
    reinsurers. No single unaffiliated reinsurer has a material
    obligation to us, nor is our business substantially dependent
    upon any reinsurance contracts.

Auto  
    Home   

Auto   Home purchases reinsurance to control our
    exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe losses) and to
    protect statutory surplus. Auto   Home cedes to
    reinsurers a portion of losses and cedes premiums based upon the
    risk and exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance.

To control our exposure to large property and casualty losses,
    Auto   Home utilizes property catastrophe, casualty,
    and property per risk excess of loss agreements.

16

Table of Contents   

Other   

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC )
    reinsures its workers  compensation business through a 100%
    quota-share reinsurance agreement and is included within
    Corporate   Other as a run-off business.

Regulation  

Insurance
    Regulation   

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is licensed to transact
    insurance business in, and is subject to regulation and
    supervision by, all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
    Puerto Rico, Canada, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Northern
    Mariana Islands. Each of the Holding Company s other
    insurance subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in all
    U.S. and international jurisdictions where they conduct
    insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but
    most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the
    financial aspects of insurers, including standards of solvency,
    statutory reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy, and the
    business conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and
    regulations usually require the licensing of insurers and their
    agents, the approval of policy forms and certain other related
    materials and, for certain lines of insurance, the approval of
    rates. Such statutes and regulations also prescribe the
    permitted types and concentration of investments. The New York
    Insurance Law limits both the amounts of agent compensation
    throughout the United States, as well as the sales commissions
    and certain other marketing expenses that may be incurred in
    connection with the sale of life insurance policies and annuity
    contracts.

The Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries are each
    required to file reports, generally including detailed annual
    financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in
    each of the jurisdictions in which they do business, and their
    operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by
    such authorities. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many
    jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory
    approval for, rules, rates and forms relating to the insurance
    written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) has established a program of accrediting
    state insurance departments. NAIC accreditation permits
    accredited states to conduct periodic examinations of insurers
    domiciled in such states. NAIC-accredited states will not accept
    reports of examination of insurers from unaccredited states,
    except under limited circumstances. As a direct result, insurers
    domiciled in unaccredited states may be subject to financial
    examination by accredited states in which they are licensed, in
    addition to any examinations conducted by their domiciliary
    states. The New York State Department of Insurance (the
     Department ), MLIC s principal insurance
    regulator, has not received accreditation. Historically, the
    lack of accreditation has resulted from the New York
    legislature s failure to adopt certain model NAIC laws.
    Although legislation enacted by the New York legislature in
    2007 may have removed any statutory barriers to the
    Department pursuing accreditation, it is not certain whether the
    Department may seek to become accredited in the future, or
    whether other impediments to accreditation remain. We do not
    believe that the absence of this accreditation will have a
    significant impact upon our ability to conduct our insurance
    businesses.

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory
    authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and
    attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding
    compliance by the Holding Company and its insurance subsidiaries
    with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations
    regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities
    businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective
    action when warranted. See  Legal Proceedings. 

Holding Company Regulation.   The Holding
    Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation
    under the insurance holding company laws of various
    jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and
    regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
    generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that
    are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register
    with state regulatory authorities and to file with those
    authorities certain reports, including information concerning
    their capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
    intercompany transactions and general business operations.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and
    limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions
    payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent
    companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its
    affiliates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company.  The New York Insurance

17

Table of Contents   

Law and the regulations thereunder also restrict the aggregate
    amount of investments MLIC may make in non-life insurance
    subsidiaries, and provide for detailed periodic reporting on
    subsidiaries.

Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.   Most of the jurisdictions in which
    the Company s insurance subsidiaries are admitted to
    transact business require life and property and casualty
    insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate
    in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain
    contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets.

In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against
    the Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries have not been
    material. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund
    assessments that we consider adequate for assessments with
    respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency
    proceedings. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Insolvency Assessments. 

Statutory Insurance Examination.   As part of
    their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments
    conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records,
    accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
    states. During the three-year period ended December 31,
    2007, MetLife, Inc. has not received any material adverse
    findings resulting from state insurance department examinations
    of its insurance subsidiaries conducted during this three-year
    period.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to MLIC s,
    New England Life Insurance Company s
    ( NELICO ) or GALIC s sales of individual life
    insurance policies or annuities. Over the past several years,
    these and a number of investigations by other regulatory
    authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain
    other relief. We may continue to resolve investigations in a
    similar manner.

Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.   Annually, MetLife, Inc. s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an
    analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each
    case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states
    that the statutory reserves, when considered in light of the
    assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and
    sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations
    and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot
    be provided, the insurer must set up additional reserves by
    moving funds from surplus. Since inception of this requirement,
    the Company s insurance subsidiaries which are required by
    their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided
    such opinions without qualifications.

Surplus and Capital.   The Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision
    of the regulators in each jurisdiction in which they are
    licensed to transact business. Regulators have discretionary
    authority, in connection with the continued licensing of these
    insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit sales to
    policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine
    that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or
    capital or that the further transaction of business will be
    hazardous to policyholders. See    Risk-Based
    Capital. 

Risk-Based Capital ( RBC ).   Each of
    the Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject
    to certain RBC requirements and reports their RBC based on a
    formula calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium
    and statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the
    risk characteristics of the insurer, including asset risk,
    insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The
    formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify
    possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of
    initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank
    insurers generally. State insurance laws provide insurance
    regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take
    various actions against, insurers whose RBC ratio does not
    exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most recent
    annual statutory financial statements filed with insurance
    regulators, the RBC of each of these subsidiaries was in excess
    of each of those RBC levels. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Capital. 

The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( Codification ) in 2001. Codification was
    intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to
    state insurance departments. However, statutory

18

Table of Contents   

accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws and permitted practices. The Department has adopted
    Codification with certain modifications for the preparation of
    statutory financial statements of insurance companies domiciled
    in New York. Modifications by the various state insurance
    departments may impact the effect of Codification on the
    statutory capital and surplus of the Company s insurance
    subsidiaries.

Regulation of Investments.   Each of the
    Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    state laws and regulations that require diversification of its
    investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in
    certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed
    income securities, equity real estate, other equity investments,
    and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and
    regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory
    limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of
    measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require
    divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that
    the investments made by each of the Company s insurance
    subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such
    regulations at December 31, 2007.

Federal Initiatives.   Although the federal
    government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
    business, federal initiatives often have an impact on our
    business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal
    measures are proposed which may significantly affect the
    insurance business; the potential for this resides primarily in
    the tax-writing committees. At the present time, we do not know
    of any federal legislative initiatives that, if enacted, would
    adversely impact our business, results of operations or
    financial condition.

Legislative Developments.   On August 17,
    2006, President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006
    ( PPA ) into law. This act is considered to be the
    most sweeping pension legislation since the adoption of the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ) on September 2, 1974. The provisions of
    the PPA may, over time, have a significant impact on demand for
    pension, retirement savings, and lifestyle protection products
    in both the institutional and retail markets. The impact of the
    legislation may have a positive effect on the life insurance and
    financial services industries in the future. In the short-term,
    regulations on a number of key provisions have either been
    issued in proposed or final form. The final default investment
    regulations were issued in October 2007. Final guidance on
    investment advice and the selection of annuity providers for
    defined contribution plans is expected to be issued in 2008. As
    these regulations are likely to interact with one another as
    plan sponsors evaluate them, we cannot predict whether these
    regulations will be adopted as proposed, or what impact, if any,
    such proposals may have on our business, results of operations
    or financial condition.

On February 8, 2006, President Bush signed into law the
    Deficit Reduction Act which, among other things, creates a
    national LTC partnership program. States are now implementing
    the partnership program. While it is possible that the
    implementation of this program could have a positive effect on
    our LTC business, we can give no assurance that this will be the
    case.

We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
    legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any
    such legislation on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

Broker-Dealer
    and Securities Regulation   

Some of the Company s subsidiaries and their activities in
    offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to
    extensive regulation under the federal securities laws
    administered by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ). These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended
    (the  Investment Company Act ). Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
    which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a
    registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
    In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life
    insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are
    registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended (the  Securities Act ). Other subsidiaries are
    registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),
    and are members of, and subject to, regulation by the Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ). Further, some
    of the Company s subsidiaries are registered as investment
    advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
    as amended (the  Investment Advisers Act ), and are
    also registered as investment advisers in various states, as
    applicable. Certain variable

19

Table of Contents   

contract separate accounts sponsored by the Company s
    subsidiaries are exempt from registration, but may be subject to
    other provisions of the federal securities laws.

Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA
    from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations
    regarding compliance by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries
    with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate
    with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action
    when warranted.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to protect investors in the securities markets and
    generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and
    enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the
    conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and
    regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and
    regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide
    investment advisory services, offer products similar to those
    described above, or conduct other activities.

Environmental
    Considerations   

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to
    extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also
    the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities
    and costs in connection with any required remediation of such
    properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies
    that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities.
    We routinely have environmental assessments performed with
    respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real
    property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide
    assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not
    arise. However, based on information currently available to
    management, management believes that any costs associated with
    compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any
    remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations or financial
    condition.

ERISA
    Considerations   

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
    plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities
    are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code,
    including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
    perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
    participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA
    and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to
    engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain
    relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable
    provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by
    the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the
    Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ).

In  John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. 
     Harris Trust and Savings Bank (1993) , the
    U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of
    amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a
    participating group annuity general account contract are
     plan assets.  Therefore, these assets are subject to
    certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires
    fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of
    ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. On January 5,
    2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations
    indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed
    by the insurer s general account to or for an employee
    benefit plan, the extent to which assets of the insurer
    constitute plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The
    regulations apply only with respect to a policy issued by an
    insurer on or before December 31, 1998 ( Transition
    Policy ). No person will generally be liable under ERISA or
    the Code for conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where
    the basis of a claim is that insurance company general account
    assets constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy
    that is backed by its general account and is issued to or for an
    employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will
    generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA,
    unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.

The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so
    that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
    considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These
    requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the
    employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must
    permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day
    notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s
    option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance
    (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a
    book value

20

Table of Contents   

payment of such amount in annual installments with interest. We
    have taken and continue to take steps designed to ensure
    compliance with these regulations.

Financial
    Holding Company Regulation   

Regulatory Agencies.   In connection with its
    acquisition of a federally-chartered commercial bank, MetLife,
    Inc. became a bank holding company and financial holding company
    on February 28, 2001. As such, the Holding Company is
    subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and to inspection,
    examination, and supervision by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (the  FRB ). In addition, the
    Holding Company s banking subsidiary is subject to
    regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and secondarily by
    the FRB and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Financial Holding Company Activities.   As a
    financial holding company, MetLife, Inc. s activities and
    investments are restricted by the BHC Act, as amended by the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the  GLB Act ), to
    those that are  financial  in nature or
     incidental  or  complementary  to such
    financial activities. Activities that are financial in nature
    include securities underwriting, dealing and market making,
    sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance
    underwriting and agency, merchant banking and activities that
    the FRB has determined to be closely related to banking. In
    addition, under the insurance company investment portfolio
    provision of the GLB Act, financial holding companies are
    authorized to make investments in other financial and
    non-financial companies, through their insurance subsidiaries,
    that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance
    with state insurance law, provided the financial holding company
    does not routinely manage or operate such companies except as
    may be necessary to obtain a reasonable return on investment.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies  
    Capital.   MetLife, Inc. and its insured depository
    institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to risk-based
    and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal banking
    regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies.
    The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to
    take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to
    institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At
    December 31, 2007, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in
    compliance with the aforementioned guidelines.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies   Consumer Protection
    Laws.   Numerous other federal and state laws also
    affect the Holding Company s and MetLife Bank s
    earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer
    protection laws. The GLB Act included consumer privacy
    provisions that, among other things, require disclosure of a
    financial institution s privacy policy to customers. In
    addition, these provisions permit states to adopt more extensive
    privacy protections through legislation or regulation.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies   Change of
    Control.   Because MetLife, Inc. is a financial
    holding company and bank holding company under the federal
    banking laws, no person may acquire control of MetLife, Inc.
    without the prior approval of the FRB. A change of control is
    conclusively presumed upon acquisitions of 25% or more of any
    class of voting securities and rebuttably presumed upon
    acquisitions of 10% or more of any class of voting securities.
    Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc. s ownership of
    MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be required in
    connection with a change of control (generally presumed upon the
    acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities) of
    MetLife, Inc.

Competition  

Our management believes that competition faced by our business
    segments is based on a number of factors, including service,
    product features, scale, price, financial strength,
    claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, ebusiness capabilities
    and name recognition. We compete with a large number of other
    insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services
    companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for
    individual consumers, employer and other group customers and
    agents and other distributors of insurance and investment
    products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of
    products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to
    other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with
    which to compete.

21

Table of Contents   

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurance companies for sales
    representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other
    insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the
    basis of our financial position, support services and
    compensation and product features. See
       Individual   Marketing and
    Distribution.  We continue to undertake several initiatives
    to grow our career agency force, while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial position could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents.

Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by
    our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually and,
    accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able
    to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

The U.S. Congress periodically considers reforms to the
    nation s healthcare system. While we offer non-medical
    health insurance products (such as group dental insurance, LTC
    and disability insurance), we generally do not offer medical
    indemnity products or managed care products, and, accordingly,
    we do not expect to be directly affected by such proposals to
    any significant degree. However, the uncertain environment
    resulting from healthcare reform could cause group health
    insurance providers to enter some of the markets in which we do
    business, thereby increasing competition. Increasing healthcare
    costs are causing consumers to seek alternative financial
    protection products. As a result, we have entered the fixed
    benefit critical illness insurance marketplace. Changes to the
    healthcare system may make this market more or less attractive
    in the future.

See    Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation   Legislative Developments  for
    information on pension plans.

22

Table of Contents   

Company
    Ratings  

Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of
    rating agencies regarding the ability of an insurance company to
    meet its financial obligations to policyholders and contract
    holders. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating
    agencies regarding an issuer s ability to repay its
    indebtedness. Our insurer financial strength ratings and credit
    ratings as of the date of this filing are listed in the tables
    below:

Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings   

Moody s 

A.M. Best 

Fitch 

Investors 

Standard   

Company (1) 

Ratings (2) 

Service (3) 

Poor s (4) 

First MetLife Investors Insurance Company

A+

N/R

N/R

AA

General American Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut

A+

AA

Aa2

AA

MetLife Investors Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA

MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA

Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Direct Property and Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan General Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Group Property   Casualty Insurance
    Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Short-Term Rating)

N/R

N/R

P-1

A-1+

Metropolitan Lloyds Insurance Company of Texas

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company

A+

N/R

Aa3

N/R

New England Life Insurance Company

A+

AA

Aa2

AA

RGA Reinsurance Company

A+

AA 

A1

AA 

RGA Life Reinsurance Company of Canada

A+

N/R

N/R

AA 

Texas Life Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

23

Table of Contents   

Credit
    Ratings   

Moody s 

A.M. Best 

Fitch 

Investors 

Standard   

Company (1) 

Ratings (2) 

Service (3) 

Poor s (4) 

General American Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)

a+

N/R

A1

A+

MetLife Capital Trust II (Preferred Stock)

a 

A 

A3

BBB+

MetLife Capital Trust III (Preferred Stock)

a 

A 

A3

BBB+

MetLife Capital Trust IV (Trust Securities)

bbb+

N/R

Baa1

BBB+

MetLife Funding, Inc. (Commercial Paper)

AMB-1+

F1+

P-1

A-1+

MetLife, Inc. (Commercial Paper)

AMB-1

F1

P-1

A-1

MetLife, Inc. (Senior Unsecured)

a

A

A2

A

MetLife, Inc. (Subordinated Debt)

a 

N/R

A3

BBB+

MetLife, Inc. (Junior Subordinated Debt)

bbb+

N/R

Baa1

BBB+

MetLife, Inc. (Preferred Stock)

bbb+

A 

Baa1

BBB+

MetLife, Inc. (Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock)

bbb+

A 

Baa1

BBB

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes) Open Block

a+

A+

A1

A+

Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated (Senior Unsecured)

a 

A 

Baa1

A 

Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated (Junior Subordinated
    Debt)

bbb

BBB+

Baa3

BBB 

RGA Capital Trust I (Preferred Stock)

bbb+

BBB+

Baa2

BBB

(1)  

A.M. Best Company ( Best ) financial strength
    ratings range from  A++ (superior)  to  F (in
    liquidation).  Ratings of  A+  and  A 
    are in the  superior  and  excellent 
    categories, respectively. 

Best s long-term credit ratings range from  aaa
    (exceptional)  to  d (in default).  A
     +  or      may be appended to
    ratings from  aa  to  ccc  to indicate
    relative position within a category. Ratings of  a 
    and  bbb  are in the  strong  and
     adequate  categories. 

Best s short-term credit ratings range from  AMB-1+
    (strongest)  to  d (in default).  

(2)  

Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ) insurer financial strength
    ratings range from  AAA (exceptionally strong)  to
     D (distressed).  A  +  or
         may be appended to ratings from
     AA  to  CCC  to indicate relative position
    within a category. A rating of  AA  is in the
     very strong  category. 

Fitch long-term credit ratings range from  AAA (highest
    credit quality),  to  D (default).  A
     +  or      may be appended to
    ratings from  AA  to  CCC  to indicate
    relative position within a category. Ratings of  A 
    and  BBB  are in the  high  and
     good  categories, respectively. 

Fitch short-term credit ratings range from  F1+
    (exceptionally strong credit quality)  to  D (in
    default).  A rating of  F1  is in the
     highest credit quality  category. 

(3)  

Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s )
    insurance financial strength ratings range from  Aaa
    (exceptional)  to  C (extremely poor).  A numeric
    modifier may be appended to ratings from  Aa  to
     Caa  to indicate relative position within a category,
    with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest. A rating of
     Aa  is in the  excellent  category. 

Moody s short-term insurer financial strength ratings range
    from
      P-1 
    (superior)  to  NP (not prime).  

Moody s long-term credit ratings range from  Aaa
    (exceptional)  to  C (typically in default).  A
    numeric modifier may be appended to ratings from  Aa 
    to  Caa  to indicate relative position within a
    category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the lowest.
    Ratings of  A  and  Baa  are in the
     upper-medium grade  and  medium-grade 
    categories, respectively. 

Moody s short-term credit ratings range from
      P-1 
    (superior)  to  NP (not prime).  

(4)  

Standard   Poor s ( S P )
    long-term insurer financial strength ratings range from
     AAA (extremely strong)  to  R (under regulatory
    supervision).  A  +  or     
    may be appended to ratings from  AA  to
     CCC  to indicate relative position within a category.
    A rating of  AA  is in the  very strong 
    category. 

24

Table of Contents   

S P short-term insurer financial strength ratings range
    from
      A-1+ 
    (extremely strong)  to  R (under regulatory
    supervision).  

S P long-term credit ratings range from  AAA
    (extremely strong)  to  D (payment default).  A
     +  or      may be appended to
    ratings from  AA  to  CCC  to indicate
    relative position within a category. A rating of  A 
    is in the  strong  category. A rating of
     BBB  has adequate protection parameters and is
    considered investment grade. 

S P short-term credit ratings range from
      A-1+ 
    (extremely strong)  to  D (payment default).  A
    rating of
      A-1  
    is in the  strong  category. 

N/R  

indicates not rated. 

Rating
    Stability Indicators   

Rating agencies use an  outlook statement  of
     positive,   stable  or  negative 
    to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals
    which, if continued, may lead to a rating change. A rating may
    have a  stable  outlook to indicate that the rating is
    not expected to change; however, a  stable  rating
    does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any
    time, without notice.

The foregoing insurer financial strength ratings reflect each
    rating agency s opinion of MLIC and the Holding
    Company s other insurance subsidiaries  financial
    characteristics with respect to their ability to pay obligations
    under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their
    terms, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of
    investors in the Holding Company s securities. Credit
    ratings are opinions of each agency with respect to specific
    securities and contractual financial obligations and the
    issuer s ability and willingness to meet those obligations
    when due. Neither insurer financial strength nor credit ratings
    are statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase,
    hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating
    should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

A ratings downgrade (or the potential for such a downgrade) of
    MLIC or any of the Holding Company s other insurance
    subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, increase the
    number of policies surrendered and withdrawals by policyholders
    of cash values from their policies, adversely affect
    relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers
    and other distributors of our products and services, negatively
    impact new sales, and adversely affect our ability to compete
    and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.

Employees  

At December 31, 2007, we had approximately
    49,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers
    of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC:

C. Robert Henrikson,  age 60, has been Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 25, 2006. Previously, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from
    March 1, 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from June 2004, and President of the
    U.S. Insurance and Financial Services businesses of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from July 2002 to June 2004. He served as
    President of Institutional Business of MetLife, Inc. from
    September 1999 to July 2002 and President of Institutional
    Business of MLIC from May 1999 through June 2002. He was Senior
    Executive Vice President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from
    December 1997 to May 1999, Executive Vice President,
    Institutional Business, from January 1996 to December 1997, and
    Senior Vice President, Pensions, from January 1991 to January
    1995. He is a director of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC.

Ruth A. Fattori,  age 56, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc. and
    MLIC since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice
    President of Human Resources for Motorola, Inc. from November
    2004 to January 2008, Senior Vice President of JPMorgan
    Chase   Co. from April 2003 to October 2004, Executive
    Vice President of Conseco, Inc. from January 2001 to November
    2002 and Senior Vice

25

Table of Contents   

President of Siemens Corporation from October 1999 to January
    2001. Before joining Siemens Corporation, Ms. Fattori was
    Managing Director of European operations for GE Capital from
    June 1998 to September 1999, and served as its Vice President
    and Chief Quality Officer from December 1995 to June 1998. She
    was Vice President of Asea Brown Boveri from July 1991 to
    December 1995.

Steven A. Kandarian,  age 55, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 2005. Previously, he was the executive director of
    the PBGC from 2001 to 2004. Before joining the PBGC,
    Mr. Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion
    Partners, LP, where he managed a private equity fund
    specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions for
    eight years. Mr. Kandarian is a director and Chairman of
    the Board of Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated.

James L. Lipscomb,  age 61, has been Executive Vice
    President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since
    July 2003. He was Senior Vice President and Deputy General
    Counsel from July 2001 to July 2003. Mr. Lipscomb was
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Conning Corporation, a
    former subsidiary of MLIC, from March 2000 to July 2001, prior
    to which he served in various senior management positions with
    MLIC for more than five years.

Maria R. Morris,  age 45, has been Executive Vice
    President, Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice President
    of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from October 2004 to December 2005, and Vice
    President of MLIC from March 1995 to October 2004.

William J. Mullaney,  age 48, has been President,
    Institutional Business, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since January
    2007. Previously, he was President of Metropolitan Property and
    Casualty Insurance Company from January 2005 to January 2007,
    Senior Vice President of Metropolitan Property and Casualty
    Insurance Company from July 2002 to December 2004, Senior Vice
    President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from August 2001 to
    July 2002, and a Vice President of MLIC for more than five
    years. He is a director of MetLife Bank, N.A. and MetLife
    Insurance Company of Connecticut.

Catherine A. Rein,  age 65, has been Senior Executive
    Vice President of MetLife, Inc . since January 2008. Previously,
    she was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative
    Officer of MetLife, Inc. from January 2005 to January 2008,
    Senior Executive Vice President of MetLife, Inc. from September
    1999 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Metropolitan
    Property and Casualty Insurance Company from March 1999 to
    January 2005. She has been Senior Executive Vice President of
    MLIC since February 1998 and was Executive Vice President from
    October 1989 to February 1998.

William J. Toppeta,  age 59, has been President,
    International, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2001. He was
    President of Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2001 and President of
    Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of MLIC from
    May 1999 to June 2001. He was Senior Executive Vice President,
    Head of Client Services, of MLIC from March 1999 to May 1999,
    Senior Executive Vice President, Individual, from February 1998
    to March 1999, Executive Vice President, Individual Business,
    from July 1996 to February 1998, Senior Vice President from
    October 1995 to July 1996 and President and Chief Executive
    Officer of its Canadian Operations from July 1993 to October
    1995.

Lisa M. Weber,  age 45, has been President,
    Individual Business, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2004.
    Previously, she was Senior Executive Vice President and Chief
    Administrative Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from June 2001
    to June 2004. She was Executive Vice President of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC from December 1999 to June 2001 and was head of Human
    Resources of MLIC from March 1998 to December 2003. She was
    Senior Vice President of MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to
    November 1999 and Senior Vice President of MLIC from March 1998
    to November 1999. Previously, she was Senior Vice President of
    Human Resources of PaineWebber Group Incorporated, where she was
    employed for ten years. Ms. Weber is a director of MetLife
    Bank, N.A. and MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut.

William J. Wheeler,  age 46, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since December 2003, prior to which he was a Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Previously, he was
    a Senior Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin  
    Jenrette for more than five years. Mr. Wheeler is a
    director of MetLife Bank, N.A.

26

Table of Contents   

Trademarks  

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider
    important in the marketing of our products and services,
    including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We
    also have the exclusive license to use the
    Peanuts   
    characters in the area of financial services and healthcare
    benefit services in the United States and internationally under
    an advertising and premium agreement with United Feature
    Syndicate until December 31, 2012. Furthermore, we also
    have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned
    trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or
    sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing
    agreement with Citigroup until June 30, 2015. We believe
    that our rights in our trademarks and under our
    Peanuts   
    characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.

Available
    Information  

MetLife, Inc. files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
    information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office,
    100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington D.C.
    20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 (Public Reference
    Room) or
     1-800-SEC-0330 
    (Office of Investor Education and Assistance). In addition, the
    SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains
    reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including
    MetLife, Inc.

MetLife, Inc. makes available, free of charge, on its website
    (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its
    annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC.
    Other information found on the website is not part of this or
    any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability   

Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and GICs, expose us to the risk that
    changes in interest rates will reduce our  spread,  or
    the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay
    under the contracts in the Company s general account and
    the rate of return we are able to earn on general account
    investments intended to support obligations under the contracts.
    Our spread is a key component of our net income.

As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with
    greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of deferred policy
    acquisition costs ( DAC ) and value of business
    acquired ( VOBA ) and significantly lower spreads may
    cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income
    in the affected reporting period. In addition, during periods of
    declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products
    may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers,
    resulting in increased premium payments on products with
    flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and
    increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance
    policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period
    when our new investments carry lower returns. A decline in
    market interest rates could also reduce our return on
    investments that do not support particular policy obligations.
    Accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely
    affect our results of operations, financial position and cash
    flows and significantly reduce our profitability.

Our results in Taiwan are highly sensitive to interest rates and
    other related assumptions because of the sustained low interest
    rate environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration assets in

27

Table of Contents   

the Taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration
    liabilities. During the fourth quarter of 2006, our Taiwanese
    operation recorded a loss recognition adjustment (in the form of
    accelerated DAC amortization) of $50 million, net of income
    tax, due, principally, to the continued low interest rate
    environment. The loss recognition testing that resulted in the
    charge during the fourth quarter of 2006 used a current best
    estimate of Taiwanese interest rates of 2.1% rising to 3.5% over
    the next ten years and a corresponding increase in related lapse
    rates. If interest rates and related lapse assumptions do not
    improve, notwithstanding other actions we may take to reduce the
    impact, current estimates of future loss recognition of as much
    as $100 million, net of income tax, could be recognized in
    our results of operations in one or more future periods and
    additional capital may be required to be contributed to the
    Taiwanese operation. The results of loss recognition testing for
    Taiwan are inherently uncertain given the use of various
    assumptions and the long-term nature of the liability, and
    therefore, can only be reliably estimated within broad ranges
    which may vary significantly in future periods.

Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    assets in the Company s general account with higher
    yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices
    of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market
    interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses.
    Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to
    accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would
    increase our current expenses and reduce net income. An increase
    in market interest rates could also have a material adverse
    effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by
    decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that
    comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio.

Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses   

Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Results of
    Operations   Industry Trends. 

Financial and Economic Environment.   During
    2007, the global capital markets reassessed the credit risk
    inherent in sub-prime mortgages. This reassessment led to a
    fairly broad repricing of all credit risk assets and strained
    market liquidity. Global central banks intervened to stabilize
    market conditions and protect against downside risks to economic
    growth. Still, market and economic conditions continued to
    deteriorate. The economic community s consensus outlook of
    global economic growth is lower for calendar year 2008, with a
    sizable minority of economists forecasting a recessionary
    environment. The global capital markets have adjusted towards
    this consensus outlook, with interest rates and equity prices
    falling and risk spreads widening. Slow growth and recessionary
    periods are often associated with declining asset prices, lower
    interest rates, credit rating agency downgrades and increasing
    default losses. The global capital markets are also less liquid
    now than in more normal environments. Liquidity conditions
    impact the cost of purchasing and selling assets and, at times,
    the ability to purchase or sell assets. These adjustments in the
    global capital markets have also resulted in higher realized and
    expected volatility.

As expectations for global economic growth are lowered, factors
    such as consumer spending, business investment, government
    spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets,
    and inflation all affect the business and economic environment
    and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of the business we
    conduct. In an economic downturn characterized by higher
    unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings,
    lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the
    demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely
    affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.

Competitive Pressures.   The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology

28

Table of Contents   

and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for
    sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. In
    addition, several of the industry s products can be quite
    homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. Sufficient
    scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming
    prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance
    industry. Larger market participants tend to have the capacity
    to invest in additional distribution capability and the
    information technology needed to offer the superior customer
    service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry
    client base. See    Competitive Factors May
    Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability  and
     Business   Competition. 

Regulatory Changes.   The life insurance
    industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and
    services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
    introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine
    capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for
    the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or
    currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and
    capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators
    have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several
    markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
    variable annuities and group products. See    Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth  and  Business  
    Regulation   Insurance Regulation. 

Pension Plans.   On August 17, 2006,
    President Bush signed the PPA into law. The PPA is a
    comprehensive reform of defined benefit and defined contribution
    plan rules. While the impact of the PPA is generally expected to
    be positive over time, these changes may have adverse short-term
    effects on our business as plan sponsors may react to these
    changes in a variety of ways as the new rules and related
    regulations begin to take effect.

A
    Decline in Equity Markets or an Increase in Volatility in Equity
    Markets May Adversely Affect Sales of Our Investment Products
    and Our Profitability   

Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations in three principal ways.

First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases
    of separate account products, such as variable annuities,
    variable life insurance and mutual funds that have returns
    linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause
    some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce
    investments in those products.

Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a
    material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our
    savings and investment products and services. Because these
    products and services depend on fees related primarily to the
    value of assets under management, a decline in the equity
    markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the
    investment assets we manage. The retail annuity business in
    particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a
    sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and
    earnings in variable annuity products.

Third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as minimum death and withdrawal
    benefits. These guarantees may be more costly than expected in
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively
    affecting net income.

Adverse
    Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Access to
    Capital, Cost of Capital and Ability to Meet Liquidity
    Needs   

Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit markets may
    limit our access to capital which is required to operate our
    business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital
    requirements; meet liquidity needs; and access the capital
    necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to
    delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer, or
    pay unattractive interest rates; thereby, increasing our
    interest expense, decreasing our profitability and significantly
    reducing our financial flexibility. Overall, our results of
    operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory
    capital position could be materially adversely affected by
    disruptions in the financial markets.

29

Table of Contents   

The
    Performance of Our Investments Depends on Conditions that Are
    Outside Our Control, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from
    Period to Period   

The performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon
    the level of and changes in interest rates, risk spreads, equity
    prices, real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates,
    market volatility, the performance of the economy in general,
    the performance of the specific obligors included in our
    portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. Changes
    in these factors can affect our net investment income in any
    period, and such changes can be substantial.

We invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment
    funds many of which make private equity investments. The amount
    and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be
    uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying
    investments, including private equity investments. The timing of
    distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events
    relating to the underlying investments, as well as the
    funds  schedules for making distributions and their needs
    for cash can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount of
    income that we record from these investments can vary
    substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity and credit
    market volatility may reduce investment income for these type of
    investments in the near term.

Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability   

Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
     e-business 
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with
    respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Some may also have greater financial resources with
    which to compete. National banks, which may sell annuity
    products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have
    pre-existing customer bases for financial services products.

Many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by
    our Institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and,
    accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able
    to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. Many of our competitors in these
    businesses offer a broader array of investment products and
    services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities
    and other investment products. See  Business  
    Competition. 

We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products   

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for sales
    representatives primarily on the basis of our financial
    position, support services and compensation and product
    features. We continue to undertake several initiatives to grow
    our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining
    agents. See  Business   Competition. 

Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results   

Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how

30

Table of Contents   

much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For
    life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these
    liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including
    estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the
    policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy,
    the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment
    returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive.
    We establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and
    benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and
    liabilities incurred. To the extent that actual claims
    experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we
    used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to
    increase our liabilities.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as
    well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in
    our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.

Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business   

Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires,
    among other things, policies and procedures to record properly
    and verify a large number of transactions and events. We have
    devoted significant resources to develop our risk management
    policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the
    future. Nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be
    fully effective. Many of our methods for managing risk and
    exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market
    behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result,
    these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be
    significantly greater than our historical measures indicate.
    Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of
    information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence
    or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise
    accessible to us. This information may not always be accurate,
    complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability   

Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. The effectiveness of external parties, including
    governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating
    the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material
    impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group insurance
    operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one
    or more of our group insurance customers could cause a
    significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. These
    events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could
    also materially and adversely affect our financial condition.

Our Auto   Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto   Home
    segment. Although Auto   Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms,
    earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather
    (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards),
    fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related
    claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
    catastrophes may also affect other Auto   Home
    coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence,
    timing and severity of catastrophes. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Impact of Hurricanes  and
    Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

31

Table of Contents   

Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and
    Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure,
    primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central United
    States and in the Pacific Northwest.

The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial
    condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.

Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See    Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses. 

A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations ( NRSROs ) publish as
    indicators of an insurance company s ability to meet
    contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to
    maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position. See
     Business   Company Ratings   Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings. 

Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.

In addition to the financial strength ratings of the Holding
    Company s insurance subsidiaries, various NRSROs also
    publish credit ratings for MetLife, Inc. and several of its
    subsidiaries. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt
    issuer s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a
    timely manner. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Credit Ratings.  A downgrade in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition

32

Table of Contents   

and results of operations in many ways, including increasing the
    cost of borrowing or adversely affecting our relationships with
    credit counterparties.

Rating agencies assign ratings based upon many factors, some of
    which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances
    outside of our control. In addition, rating agencies employ
    different models and methods to assess our financial strength
    and creditworthiness, and may alter these models and methods
    from time to time at their discretion. We cannot predict what
    actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in
    response to the actions of rating agencies, which could
    adversely affect our business.

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
    Results of Operations or Financial Condition   

We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit is dependent principally on
    investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain
    economic variables, such as inflation. Of these factors, we
    anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the
    rate of amortization of such costs. The aforementioned factors
    enter into management s estimates of gross profits, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
    gross profits were overstated, then the amortization of such
    costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience
    is known and would result in a charge to income. Such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial condition.

VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience
    may vary from the projections. Revisions to estimates result in
    changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which
    the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a
    charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC,
    an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if the
    estimates of gross profits were overstated. Accordingly, the
    amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in
    which the actual experience is known and would result in a
    charge to net income. Such adjustments could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.

Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Value of Our Fixed
    Maturity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings   

We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. At December 31, 2007, the
    fixed maturity securities of $242.2 billion in our
    investment portfolio represented 70.2% of our total cash and
    invested assets. The occurrence of a major economic downturn,
    acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other
    events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these
    securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity
    securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the
    default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment
    portfolio to increase. A ratings downgrade affecting issuers or
    guarantors of particular securities could also have a similar
    effect. With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or
    guarantors could be adversely affected. Any event reducing the
    value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.

Defaults
    on Our Mortgage and Consumer Loans May Adversely Affect Our
    Profitability   

Our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk.
    Our mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized
    by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well
    as automobiles. At December 31, 2007, our mortgage and
    consumer loan investments of $47.0 billion represented
    13.6% of our

33

Table of Contents   

total cash and invested assets. At December 31, 2007, loans
    that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure
    totaled less than 1% of our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments. The performance of our mortgage and consumer loan
    investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition,
    substantially all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon
    payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our
    mortgage and consumer loan investments could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

The
    Valuation of Investments May Include Methodologies, Estimations
    and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations
    and Could Result in Changes to Investment Valuations That May
    Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition   

The fair values for public fixed maturity securities and public
    equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates
    from independent pricing services. However, in cases where
    quoted market prices are not available, such as for private
    fixed maturities, fair values are estimated using present value
    or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

During periods of market disruption including periods of
    significantly rising or high interest rates and/or rapidly
    widening credit spreads it may be difficult to value certain of
    our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market
    data becomes less observable. As such, valuations may include
    inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require
    greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more
    sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in
    values which may be less than the value at which the investments
    may be ultimately sold. Significant period-to-period changes in
    value may also result. Decreases in value may have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
    condition.

Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid   

We hold certain investments that, even under normal market
    conditions, may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed
    maturity securities; complex structured products; mortgage and
    consumer loans; and equity real estate, including real estate
    joint ventures; other limited partnership interests, and certain
    pooled investment funds. These asset classes represented 28% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of
    December 31, 2007. Under stressful capital market and
    economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates increasing
    the price to purchase and sell assets and at times impacting the
    ability to purchase and sell assets. If we require significant
    amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash
    requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments
    in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we
    otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.

Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability   

We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries.
    If the currencies of the
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios
    decline against the U.S. dollar, our investment returns,
    and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. Although
    we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate
    foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance
    that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties
    will perform their obligations. See  Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    emerging markets.

34

Table of Contents   

We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated
    in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of
    currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results;
    however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of
    these results into our consolidated financial statements.
    Although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign
    currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely
    affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the
    failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability   

Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See  Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers  associations and
    trade unions in some countries. If our business model is not
    successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of
    our investment in building and training the sales force in that
    country.

We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. This
    may require considerable management time, as well as
     start-up 
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.

The business we acquired from Travelers includes operations in
    several foreign countries, including Australia, Brazil,
    Argentina, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland, Japan and Hong
    Kong. See  Business   International.  Those
    operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to
    the risks described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the
    business, legal and regulatory environment in any of those
    countries.

In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    challenging. In Argentina, we are principally engaged in the
    pension business. This business has incurred significant losses
    in recent years as a result of actions taken by the Argentinean
    government in response to a sovereign debt crisis in December
    2001. Further governmental or legal actions related to pension
    reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could
    result in future losses in our Argentinean operations.

See also    Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability  regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.

Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses   

As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See  Business   Reinsurance
    Activity.  While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.

35

Table of Contents   

If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer s or indemnitor s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and
    currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments.  If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. Such failure could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

Our
    Insurance Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth   

Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. State insurance laws
    regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and
    the Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries are regulated
    by the insurance departments of the states in which they are
    domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. Our
     non-U.S. insurance 
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate. See  Business   Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation. 

State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:

licensing companies and agents to transact business;

calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;

mandating certain insurance benefits;

regulating certain premium rates;

reviewing and approving policy forms;

regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;

regulating advertising;

protecting privacy;

establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;

fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;

approving changes in control of insurance companies;

restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and

regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the

36

Table of Contents   

amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the
    liabilities that we have currently established for these
    potential liabilities may not be adequate. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation   Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements. 

State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

The NAIC and several states  legislatures have considered
    the need for regulations
     and/or  laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    investigations of broker compensation in the State of New York
    and in other jurisdictions. The NAIC adopted a Compensation
    Disclosure Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which,
    if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or
    brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents
    or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented
    acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer
    also compensates the agent or broker. Several states have
    enacted laws similar to the NAIC amendment. We cannot predict
    how many states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or alternative
    regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a
    material adverse impact on our business.

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In
    addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of
    insurance have been proposed. These proposals include the
    National Insurance Act of 2007, which would permit an optional
    federal charter for insurers. We cannot predict whether this or
    other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such
    proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.

Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of the Holding Company s subsidiaries that could,
    if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.

Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and
    Harm to Our Reputation   

We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See  Legal Proceedings 
    and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

37

Table of Contents   

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory
    investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be
    reflected in our consolidated financial statements. The review
    includes senior legal and financial personnel. Unless stated
    elsewhere herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss
    for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made
    with a reasonable degree of certainty. See  Legal
    Proceedings  and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Liabilities are established when it is
    probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the
    loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of matters noted in  Legal
    Proceedings  and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. It is possible that some of the matters
    could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or
    establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of
    December 31, 2007.

MLIC and MetLife, Inc. have been named as defendants in several
    lawsuits brought in connection with MLIC s demutualization
    in 2000. Although most of these lawsuits have been dismissed,
    two have been certified as nationwide class action lawsuits.
    MLIC and its affiliates also are currently defendants in
    hundreds of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing
    and sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities.
    These lawsuits are generally referred to as sales practices
    claims.

In addition, MLIC is a defendant in thousands of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have been based upon
    allegations relating to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty due to numerous factors. The availability of data is
    limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the
    jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact
    of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. The
    number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate
    amount of any liability that MLIC may ultimately incur is
    uncertain. Accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total
    exposure to asbestos claims may be greater than the liability
    recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that
    future charges to income may be necessary. The potential future
    charges could be material in particular quarterly or annual
    periods in which they are recorded.

We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.

We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory

38

Table of Contents   

scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could
    result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide
    regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other
     Standard-Setting 
    Bodies May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Statements   

Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
     and/or 
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. It is possible that future accounting standards
    we are required to adopt could change the current accounting
    treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements
    and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition and results of operations.

Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations May
    Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability   

Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also  securities, 
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of
    which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a
    registered investment company under the Investment Company Act.
    In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life
    insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are
    registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under
    the Exchange Act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation
    by FINRA. Further, some of the Holding Company s
    subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the SEC
    under the Investment Advisers Act, and are also registered as
    investment advisers in various states, as applicable.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life
    insurance policies, could have such a material adverse effect.

Changes
    in Tax Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers; Changes in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or
    Interpretations of Such Laws or Regulations Could Increase Our
    Corporate Taxes   

Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. For example, reductions in the federal
    income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term
    capital gains and dividends paid on stock may provide an
    incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to
    shift assets away from some insurance company products,
    including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer taxes
    payable on investment returns. Because the income taxes payable
    on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock has
    been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral
    benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the
    potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other
    investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital
    gains. A shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts
    and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from
    sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we
    earn investment income.

We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of
    any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any
    legislation would have a material adverse effect on our

39

Table of Contents   

financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore,
    changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such
    laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes.

State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests   

State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.

Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or
    impede a business combination involving us. State insurance laws
    prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance
    company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance
    regulator. Under most states  statutes, an entity is
    presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns,
    directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that
    insurance company or its parent company. Federal banking
    authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of
    control of our banking operations. In addition, the Investment
    Company Act would require approval by the contract owners of our
    variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of
    any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying
    our variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be
    necessary for a change of control of any FINRA registered
    broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc.

In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested
    stockholder  to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an  interested stockholder.  An
     interested stockholder  is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.

MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc. s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.

The stockholder rights plan adopted by MetLife, Inc. s
    Board of Directors may also have anti-takeover effects. The
    stockholder rights plan is designed to protect MetLife,
    Inc. s stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to
    acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the
    opinion of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors, could impair
    its ability to represent stockholder interests. The provisions
    of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited
    takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent
    such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer MetLife,
    Inc. s stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at
    a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by
    a majority of MetLife, Inc. s stockholders.

As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends   

MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash the Holding Company receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its

40

Table of Contents   

debt service and other holding company obligations, the Holding
    Company may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of
    debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets.

The payment of dividends and other distributions to the Holding
    Company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to the
    Holding Company if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation,   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company  and Note 18
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to the Holding Company
    could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends
    or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary
    transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations
    in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate.
    See    Our International Operations Face
    Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks That Could
    Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our Profitability. 

MetLife,
    Inc. s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust   

Under MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
     Plan ), we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the  Trust ) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. As of February 25,
    2008, 258,577,341 shares, or 36.3%, of the outstanding
    shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust.
    Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting
    provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of
    matters brought to a stockholder vote.

Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.

If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:

an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;

a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;

any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and

any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.

If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by trust beneficiaries.

41

Table of Contents   

We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies   

The Plan required that we establish and operate an accounting
    mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the
    reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We
    allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will
    produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from
    the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably
    expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities
    relating to these policies, including, but not limited to,
    provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and
    tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder
    dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying
    such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such
    scales if the experience changes. We cannot provide assurance
    that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the
    closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the
    policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to
    provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. If
    they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. Even if
    they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to
    support policyholder dividend payments with our general account
    funds.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.

The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio   

The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by
    the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict whether,
    and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities. The continued threat of terrorism
    also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced
    insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk
    than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain
    reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions also could
    disrupt our operations centers in the United States or abroad.
    In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in
    higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.

The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively   

In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and
    electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized
    tampering with our computer systems. In addition, in the event
    that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in
    the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct
    business could be severely compromised. These interruptions also
    may interfere with our suppliers  ability to provide goods
    and services and our employees ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.

42

Table of Contents   

We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities or Asset Impairments Arising from
    Possible Acquisitions and Dispositions of
    Businesses   

We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities or
    asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in
    the course of performing due diligence investigations on each
    business that we have acquired or may acquire.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

MetLife, Inc. has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff
    regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.

Item 2.      

Properties   

We lease approximately 685,000 rentable square feet in Long
    Island City, New York under a long-term lease arrangement with
    approximately 1,600 associates working in the Institutional,
    Individual and International segments, as well as
    Corporate   Other. We intend to relocate certain of
    these associates to new offices in Manhattan.

In December 2006, we signed a lease for approximately
    410,000 rentable square feet in Manhattan, New York to be
    located on 12 floors. The term of the lease will commence during
    2008 and will continue for approximately 21 years. We
    anticipate moving certain operations from Long Island City, New
    York, to Manhattan in late 2008, but we intend to continue to
    maintain an on-going presence in Long Island City.

In November 2006, we sold our Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New York to a
    group led by Tishman Speyer and BlackRock Realty, the real
    estate arm of BlackRock, Inc., for $5.4 billion. The gain
    of approximately $3.0 billion is included in income from
    discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated
    statements of income.

In 2005, we sold our 200 Park Avenue property in Manhattan, New
    York for $1.7 billion. The gain is included in income from
    discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated
    statements of income. In connection with the sale of the 200
    Park Avenue property, we have retained rights to existing
    signage and are leasing space for associates in the property for
    20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205.
    Associates located in the 200 Park Avenue office, our
    headquarters, include those working in the Institutional and
    Individual segments.

We continue to own 15 other buildings in the United States that
    we use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain
    approximately 4.2 million rentable square feet and are
    located in the following states: Florida, Illinois, Missouri,
    New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island
    and Texas. Our computer center in Rensselaer, New York is not
    owned in fee but rather is occupied pursuant to a long-term
    ground lease. We lease space in approximately 570 other
    locations throughout the United States, and these leased
    facilities consist of approximately 8.4 million rentable
    square feet. Approximately 58% of these leases are occupied as
    sales offices for the Individual segment, and we use the balance
    for our other business activities. We also own five buildings
    outside the United States, comprising more than
    300,000 rentable square feet. We lease approximately
    2.5 million rentable square feet in various locations
    outside the United States. Management believes that these
    properties are suitable and adequate for our current and
    anticipated business operations.

We also own one building in Mexico that we use in the operation
    of our business. This building contains approximately 130,000
    rentable square feet.

We arrange for property and casualty coverage on our properties,
    taking into consideration our risk exposures and the cost and
    availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss
    levels. In connection with its renewal of those coverages, we
    have arranged $700 million of annual terrorist coverage on
    our real estate portfolio through March 15, 2008, its
    annual renewal date.

43

Table of Contents   

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation
    matters. In some of the matters, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States
    permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
    damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not
    to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants
    to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
    jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may
    permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well
    exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for
    similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with
    the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving
    through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of
    time, demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which
    may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to
    its merits or disposition value. Thus, unless stated below, the
    specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be inherently impossible to
    ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties
    can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
    totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness
    of witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
    information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. The review includes senior legal and financial
    personnel. In 2007, the Company received $39 million upon
    the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the
    2000 acquisition of GALIC, and the Company reduced legal
    liabilities by $38 million after the settlement of certain
    cases. Unless stated below, estimates of possible losses or
    ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary
    course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. Liabilities have been established for a number of the
    matters noted below; in 2007 the Company increased legal
    liabilities for pending sales practices, employment, property
    and casualty and intellectual property litigation matters
    against the Company. It is possible that some of the matters
    could require the Company to pay damages or make other
    expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
    estimated as of December 31, 2007.

Demutualization
    Actions  

Several lawsuits were brought in 2000 challenging the fairness
    of the Plan and the adequacy and accuracy of MLIC s
    disclosure to policyholders regarding the Plan. The actions
    discussed below name as defendants some or all of MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. MLIC, the Holding
    Company, and the individual directors believe they have
    meritorious defenses to the plaintiffs  claims and are
    contesting vigorously all of the plaintiffs  claims in
    these actions.

Fiala, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (Sup.
    Ct., N.Y. County, filed March 17, 2000) .  The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated state court class actions seek
    compensatory relief and punitive damages against MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. On January 30,
    2007, the trial court signed an order certifying a litigation
    class of present and former policyholders on plaintiffs 
    claim that defendants violated section 7312 of the New York
    Insurance Law, but denying plaintiffs  motion to certify a
    litigation class with respect to a common law fraud claim.
    Plaintiffs and defendants have filed notices of appeal from this
    order. The court has directed various forms of class notice.

In re MetLife Demutualization Litig. (E.D.N.Y., filed
    April 18, 2000).   In this class action
    against MLIC and the Holding Company, plaintiffs served a second
    consolidated amended complaint in 2004. Plaintiffs assert
    violations of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in
    connection with the Plan, claiming that the Policyholder
    Information Booklets failed to disclose certain material facts
    and contained certain material misstatements. They seek
    rescission and compensatory damages. By orders dated
    July 19, 2005 and August 29, 2006, the federal trial
    court certified a litigation class of present and former
    policyholders. The court has not yet directed the manner and
    form of class notice.

44

Table of Contents   

Asbestos-Related
    Claims  

MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of
    asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These
    suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs
    suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and
    seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in
    the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or
    selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC
    issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to
    companies in the business of manufacturing, producing,
    distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned
    of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other
    things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health
    risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in
    these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters,
    however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables,
    including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions,
    the nature of the alleged injury, and factors unrelated to the
    ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC
    employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos
    loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending
    litigation by judicial rulings and settling litigation under
    appropriate circumstances.

Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence,
    intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
    associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of
    certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no
    duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special
    relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture,
    produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly
    injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any
    actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the
    cause of the plaintiffs  injuries;
    (iv) plaintiffs  exposure occurred after the dangers
    of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with
    respect to filing suit has expired. During the course of the
    litigation, certain trial courts have granted motions dismissing
    claims against MLIC, while other trial courts have denied
    MLIC s motions to dismiss. There can be no assurance that
    MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions in the future.
    While most cases brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to
    continue to defend aggressively against claims based on asbestos
    exposure, including defending claims at trials.

The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims
    pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate
    number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and
    the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve
    asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set
    forth in the following table:

(1)  

Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the
    year in connection with settlements made in that year and in
    prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys 
    fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from
    insurance carriers. 

In 2004, MLIC received approximately 23,900 new claims, ending
    the year with a total of approximately 108,000 claims, and paid
    approximately $85.5 million for settlements reached in 2004
    and prior years. In 2003, MLIC received approximately 58,750 new
    claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 111,700
    claims, and paid approximately $84.2 million for
    settlements reached in 2003 and prior years. The number of
    asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of
    any liability that MLIC may ultimately incur is uncertain.

The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims.
    MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its
    estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts
    presently known to it, its understanding of current law, and its
    past experiences: (i) the reasonably probable and estimable
    liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC,
    including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the
    reasonably probable and estimable liability for asbestos claims
    not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are
    reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal
    defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant
    assumptions underlying MLIC s

45

Table of Contents   

analysis of the adequacy of its recorded liability with respect
    to asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future
    claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the
    cost to defend claims.

MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure
    from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
    experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos
    claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant
    trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous
    variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
    overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies
    of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative
    and judicial developments, the number of pending claims
    involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
    against it and other defendants, and the jurisdictions in which
    claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC
    increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by
    $402 million from approximately $820 million to
    $1,225 million. MLIC regularly reevaluates its exposure
    from asbestos litigation and has updated its liability analysis
    for asbestos-related claims through December 31, 2007.

The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure
    is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions
    impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change.
    The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult
    to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can
    affect liability estimates, including the number of future
    claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity
    of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the
    number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and
    variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are
    filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the
    willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims
    against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the
    dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of
    any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos
    exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years
    further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is
    a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
    reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
    Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be
    materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued
    and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the
    potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on
    information currently known by management, management does not
    believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position.

During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provide for
    recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion, which is in excess
    of a $400 million self-insured retention. The
    Company s initial option to commute the excess insurance
    policies for asbestos-related claims arises at the end of 2008.
    Thereafter, the Company will have a commutation right every five
    years. The excess insurance policies for asbestos-related claims
    are also subject to annual and per claim sublimits. Amounts
    exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and 2005 were
    approximately $16 million, $8 million and $0,
    respectively. The Company continues to study per claim averages,
    and there can be no assurance as to the number and cost of
    claims resolved in the future, including related defense costs,
    and the applicability of the sublimits to these costs. Amounts
    are recoverable under the policies annually with respect to
    claims paid during the prior calendar year. Although amounts
    paid by MLIC in any given year that may be recoverable in the
    next calendar year under the policies will be reflected as a
    reduction in the Company s operating cash flows for the
    year in which they are paid, management believes that the
    payments will not have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s liquidity.

Each asbestos-related policy contains an experience fund and a
    reference fund that provide for payments to MLIC at the
    commutation date if the reference fund is greater than zero at
    commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss
    reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference
    fund is less than the return specified in the experience fund.
    The return in the reference fund is tied to performance of the
    Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500
    Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. A claim with
    respect to the prior year was made under the excess insurance
    policies in each year from 2003 through 2007 for the amounts
    paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of the
    retention. As the performance of the indices impacts the return
    in the reference fund, it is possible that loss reimbursements
    to the Company and the recoverable amount with respect to later
    periods may be less than the amount of the recorded losses.
    Foregone loss reimbursements may be recovered upon commutation
    depending upon future performance of the reference fund. If at
    some point in the future, the Company believes the liability for
    probable and reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related
    claims should be increased, an expense would be recorded and the
    insurance recoverable would be adjusted subject to the terms,
    conditions and limits of the

46

Table of Contents   

excess insurance policies. Portions of the change in the
    insurance recoverable would be recorded as a deferred gain and
    amortized into income over the estimated remaining settlement
    period of the insurance policies. The foregone loss
    reimbursements were approximately $56.1 million with
    respect to claims for the period of 2002 through 2006 and are
    estimated, as of December 31, 2007, to be approximately
    $69.1 million in the aggregate, including future years.

Sales
    Practices Claims  

Over the past several years, MLIC; New England Mutual Life
    Insurance Company, New England Life Insurance Company and New
    England Securities Corporation (collectively  New
    England  GALIC; Walnut Street Securities and MetLife
    Securities, Inc. ( MSI ) have faced numerous claims,
    including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or
    sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual
    funds or other products.

As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 130 sales
    practices litigation matters pending against the Company. The
    Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in
    these matters. Some sales practices claims have been resolved
    through settlement. Other sales practices claims have been won
    by dispositive motions or have gone to trial. Most of the
    current cases seek substantial damages, including in some cases
    punitive and treble damages and attorneys  fees. Additional
    litigation relating to the Company s marketing and sales of
    individual life insurance, mutual funds or other products may be
    commenced in the future.

Two putative class action lawsuits involving sales practices
    claims are pending against MLIC in Canada. In  Jacynthe
    Evoy-Larouche v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Que. Super.
    Ct., filed March 1998) , plaintiff alleges misrepresentations
    regarding dividends and future payments for life insurance
    policies and seeks unspecified damages. In  Ace Quan v.
    Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Ont. Gen. Div., filed April
    1997) , plaintiff alleges breach of contract and negligent
    misrepresentations relating to, among other things, life
    insurance premium payments and seeks damages, including punitive
    damages.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to MLIC s, New
    England s, GALIC s, MSI s or Walnut Street
    Securities  sales of individual life insurance policies or
    annuities or other products. Over the past several years, these
    and a number of investigations by other regulatory authorities
    were resolved for monetary payments and certain other relief.
    The Company may continue to resolve investigations in a similar
    manner. The Company believes adequate provision has been made in
    its consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for sales practices claims against
    MLIC, New England, GALIC, MSI and Walnut Street Securities.

Property
    and Casualty Actions  

Katrina-Related Litigation.   There are a number
    of lawsuits, including a few putative class actions and
     mass  actions, pending in Louisiana and Mississippi
    against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company
    relating to Hurricane Katrina. The lawsuits include claims by
    policyholders for coverage for damages stemming from Hurricane
    Katrina, including for damages resulting from flooding or storm
    surge. The deadline for filing actions in Louisiana has expired.
    It is reasonably possible that additional actions will be filed
    in other states. The Company intends to continue to defend
    vigorously against these matters, although appropriate matters
    may be resolved as part of the ordinary claims adjustment
    process.

Shipley v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. and
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (Ill. Cir. Ct.,
    Madison County, filed February 26 and July 2,
    2003) .  Two putative nationwide class actions have
    been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
    Company in Illinois. One suit claims breach of contract and
    fraud due to the alleged underpayment of medical claims arising
    from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing
    system. A motion for class certification has been filed and
    briefed. The second suit currently alleges breach of contract
    arising from the alleged use of preferred provider organizations
    to reduce medical provider fees covered by the medical claims
    portion of the insurance policy. A motion for class
    certification has been filed and briefed. A third putative
    nationwide class action relating to the payment of medical
    providers,  Innovative Physical Therapy, Inc. v. MetLife
    Auto   Home, et ano  ( D. N.J., filed
    November 12, 2007 ) has been filed against Metropolitan
    Property and Casualty Insurance Company in federal court in New
    Jersey. The Company is vigorously defending against the claims
    in these matters.

47

Table of Contents   

Regulatory
    Matters  

The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other
    inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance
    commissioners; state attorneys general or other state
    governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC;
    federal governmental authorities, including congressional
    committees; and FINRA seeking a broad range of information. The
    issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters
    vary widely. Certain regulators have requested information and
    documents regarding contingent commission payments to brokers,
    the Company s awareness of any  sham  bids for
    business, bids and quotes that the Company submitted to
    potential customers, incentive agreements entered into with
    brokers, or compensation paid to intermediaries. Regulators also
    have requested information relating to market timing and late
    trading of mutual funds and variable insurance products and,
    generally, the marketing of products. The Company has received a
    subpoena from the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the
    Southern District of California asking for documents regarding
    the insurance broker Universal Life Resources. The Company has
    been cooperating fully with these inquiries.

In 2005, MSI received a notice from the Illinois Department of
    Securities asserting possible violations of the Illinois
    Securities Act in connection with sales of a former
    affiliate s mutual funds. A response has been submitted and
    in January 2008, MSI received notice of the commencement of an
    administrative action by the Illinois Department of Securities.
    MSI intends to vigorously defend against the claims in this
    matter.

Other
    Litigation  

In Re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig. (D. N.J., filed
    February 24, 2005).   In this multi-district
    proceeding, plaintiffs filed a class action complaint
    consolidating claims from several separate actions that had been
    filed in or transferred to the District of New Jersey in 2004
    and 2005. The consolidated complaint alleged that the Holding
    Company, MLIC, several non-affiliated insurance companies and
    several insurance brokers violated the Racketeer Influenced and
    Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), ERISA, and
    antitrust laws and committed other misconduct in the context of
    providing insurance to employee benefit plans and to persons who
    participate in such employee benefit plans. In August and
    September 2007, the court issued orders granting
    defendants  motions to dismiss with prejudice the federal
    antitrust and the RICO claims. In January 2008, the court issued
    an order granting defendants  summary judgment motion on
    the ERISA claims, and in February 2008, the court dismissed the
    remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds. Plaintiffs
    have filed a notice of appeal of the court s decisions. A
    putative class action alleging that the Holding Company and
    other non-affiliated defendants violated state laws was
    transferred to the District of New Jersey but was not
    consolidated with other related actions. Plaintiffs  motion
    to remand this action to state court in Florida is pending.

The American Dental Association, et al. v. MetLife Inc., et
    al. (S.D. Fla., filed May 19, 2003) .  The
    American Dental Association and three individual providers have
    sued the Holding Company, MLIC and other non-affiliated
    insurance companies in a putative class action lawsuit. The
    plaintiffs purport to represent a nationwide class of
     in-network 
    providers who allege that their claims are being wrongfully
    reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and
    programming of software. The complaint alleges federal
    racketeering and various state law theories of liability. The
    district court has granted in part and denied in part the
    Company s motion to dismiss. The plaintiffs filed an
    amended complaint, and the Company filed another motion to
    dismiss. The court has issued a
     tag-along 
    order, related to a medical managed care trial, which has stayed
    the lawsuit.

Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D.
    Okla., filed January 31, 2007) .  A putative
    class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI.
    Plaintiffs assert legal theories of violations of the federal
    securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the
    sale of certain proprietary products by the Company s
    agency distribution group. Plaintiffs seek rescission,
    compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees and expenses. The Company is vigorously
    defending against the claims in this matter.

MLIC also has been named as a defendant in a number of welding
    and mixed dust lawsuits filed in various state and federal
    courts. The Company is continuing to vigorously defend against
    these claims.

Summary  

Putative or certified class action litigation and other
    litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in
    addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise
    provided for in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s
    business, including, but not limited to, in

48

Table of Contents   

connection with its activities as an insurer, employer,
    investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state
    insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state
    authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations
    concerning the Company s compliance with applicable
    insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all
    pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses, except as noted
    previously in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to previously, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the
    fourth quarter of 2007.

49

Table of Contents   

Part II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Issuer
    Common Equity   

MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
    began trading on the NYSE under the symbol  MET  on
    April 5, 2000.

The following table presents high and low closing prices for the
    common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated:

As of February 25, 2008, there were
    87,071 stockholders of record of common stock.

The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates,
    as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    common stock:

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as our current earnings, expected
    medium-term and long-term earnings, financial condition,
    regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental
    regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends
    and other distributions to the Company by its insurance
    subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation,   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Dividends  and Note 18 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

50

Table of Contents   

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities   

Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of the Company or
    its affiliates during the quarter ended December 31, 2007
    are set forth below:

(1)  

During the periods October 1   October 31, 2007,
    November 1   November 30, 2007 and December
    1   December 31, 2007, separate account
    affiliates of the Company purchased 1,026 shares,
    16,990 shares and 21,087 shares, respectively, of
    common stock on the open market in nondiscretionary transactions
    to rebalance index funds. Except as disclosed above, there were
    no shares of common stock which were repurchased by the Company
    other than through a publicly announced plan or program. 

(2)  

In February 2007, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase
    program. In September 2007, the Company s Board of
    Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock
    repurchase program which began after the completion of the
    $1 billion common stock repurchase program authorized in
    February 2007. At December 31, 2007, $511 million
    remained under the September 2007 program. Under these
    authorizations, the Company may purchase its common stock from
    the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market (including
    pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the
    requirements of Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and in
    privately negotiated transactions. 

In December 2007, the Company entered into an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the terms of
    the agreement, the Company paid the bank $450 million in
    cash in January 2008 in exchange for 6,646,692 shares of
    the Company s outstanding common stock that the bank
    borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the bank
    delivered 1,043,530 additional shares of the Company s
    common stock to the Company resulting in a total of
    7,690,222 shares being repurchased under the agreement. At
    December 31, 2007, the Company recorded the obligation to
    pay $450 million to the bank as a reduction of additional
    paid-in capital. Upon settlement with the bank, the Company
    increased additional paid-in capital and reduced treasury stock.
    As no settlement occurred prior to December 31, 2007, the
    impact of this accelerated common stock repurchase agreement was
    not reflected in the table above. 

In November 2007, the Company repurchased 11,559,803 shares
    of its outstanding common stock at an initial cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to
    the Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in
    the open market to return to such third parties. Also, in
    November 2007, the Company received a cash adjustment of
    $19 million based on the trading price of the common stock
    during the repurchase period, for a final purchase price of
    $731 million. The Company recorded the shares initially
    repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received
    as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock. 

In March 2007, the Company repurchased 11,895,321 shares of
    its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Company from third parties and purchased common
    stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In
    June 2007, the Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $17 million for a  

51

Table of Contents   

final purchase price of $767 million. The Company recorded
    the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded
    the amount paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury
    stock. 

In December 2006, the Company repurchased 3,993,024 shares
    of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $232 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Company from third parties and purchased the common
    stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In
    February 2007, the Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $8 million for a final purchase price of $240 million.
    The Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as
    treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an adjustment to
    the cost of the treasury stock. 

See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company   Liquidity Uses   Share
    Repurchase  and  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Subsequent Events  for further
    information relating to common stock repurchases subsequent to
    December 31, 2007.

52

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following selected financial data has been derived from the
    Company s audited consolidated financial statements. The
    statement of income data for the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005 and the balance sheet data as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 have been derived from the
    Company s audited financial statements included elsewhere
    herein. The statement of income data for the years ended
    December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the balance sheet data as of
    December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 have been derived from the
    Company s audited financial statements not included herein.
    The selected financial data set forth below should be read in
    conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and the
    consolidated financial statements and related notes included
    elsewhere herein. Some previously reported amounts have been
    reclassified to conform with the presentation at and for the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

53

Table of Contents   

54

Table of Contents   

(1)  

On July 1, 2005, the Company acquired Travelers. The 2005
    selected financial data includes total revenues and total
    expenses of $966 million and $577 million,
    respectively, from the date of the acquisition. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Acquisitions and
    Dispositions.  

(2)  

Discontinued Operations: 

Real
    Estate  

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    ( SFAS ) No. 144,  Accounting for the
    Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
     ( SFAS 144 ), income related to real estate
    sold or classified as held-for-sale for transactions initiated
    on or after January 1, 2002 is presented as discontinued
    operations. The following information presents the components of
    income from discontinued real estate operations:

55

Table of Contents   

Operations  

In September 2007, September 2005 and January 2005, the Company
    sold its MetLife Insurance Limited ( MetLife
    Australia ) annuities and pension businesses,
    P.T. Sejahtera ( MetLife Indonesia ) and SSRM
    Holdings, Inc. ( SSRM ), respectively. In accordance
    with SFAS 144, the assets, liabilities and operations of
    MetLife Indonesia, SSRM and MetLife Australia have been
    reclassified into discontinued operations for all years
    presented. The following tables present these discontinued
    operations:

(3)  

The cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income
    tax, of $86 million for the year ended December 31,
    2004, resulted from the adoption of
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
    Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate
    Accounts.  The cumulative effect of a change in accounting,
    net of income tax, of $26 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2003, resulted from the adoption of
    SFAS No. 133 Implementation Issue No. B36,
     Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and
    Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposures That Are
    Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of
    the Obligor under Those Instruments.  

(4)  

Policyholder liabilities include future policy benefits, other
    policyholder funds and bank deposits. The life and health
    policyholder liabilities also include policyholder account
    balances, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder
    dividend obligation. 

(5)  

The cumulative effect of changes in accounting, net of income
    tax, of $329 million, which decreased retained earnings at
    January 1, 2007, resulted from $292 million related to
    the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts,  and $37 million related to the adoption of
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   An
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 . 

(6)  

The cumulative effect of a change in accounting, net of income
    tax, of $744 million resulted from the adoption of
    SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,  and
    decreased accumulated other comprehensive income at
    December 31, 2006. 

(7)  

Return on common equity is defined as net income available to
    common shareholders divided by average common stockholders 
    equity. 

56

Table of Contents   

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

For purposes of this discussion,  MetLife  or the
     Company  refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware
    corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). Following this
    summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of
    operations and financial condition of the Company for the
    periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction
    with the forward-looking statement information included below,
     Risk Factors,   Selected Financial Data 
    and the Company s consolidated financial statements
    included elsewhere herein.

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations contains statements which
    constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including
    statements relating to trends in the operations and financial
    results and the business and the products of MetLife, Inc. and
    its subsidiaries, as well as other statements including words
    such as  anticipate,   believe, 
     plan,   estimate,   expect, 
     intend  and other similar expressions.
    Forward-looking statements are made based upon management s
    current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments
    and their potential effects on the Company. Such forward-looking
    statements are not guarantees of future performance.

Actual results may differ materially from those included in the
    forward-looking statements as a result of risks and
    uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following:
    (i) changes in general economic conditions, including the
    performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may
    affect the Company s ability to raise capital;
    (ii) heightened competition, including with respect to
    pricing, entry of new competitors, the development of new
    products by new and existing competitors and for personnel;
    (iii) investment losses and defaults, and changes to
    investment valuations; (iv) unanticipated changes in
    industry trends; (v) catastrophe losses;
    (vi) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and
    procedures; (vii) changes in accounting standards,
    practices
     and/or 
    policies; (viii) changes in assumptions related to deferred
    policy acquisition costs ( DAC ), value of business
    acquired ( VOBA ) or goodwill; (ix) discrepancies
    between actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting
    prices for the Company s products and establishing the
    liabilities for the Company s obligations for future policy
    benefits and claims; (x) discrepancies between actual
    experience and assumptions used in establishing liabilities
    related to other contingencies or obligations; (xi) adverse
    results or other consequences from litigation, arbitration or
    regulatory investigations; (xii) downgrades in the
    Company s and its affiliates  claims paying ability,
    financial strength or credit ratings; (xiii) regulatory,
    legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or
    demand for, the Company s products or services;
    (xiv) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance, as a holding
    company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment
    obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the
    ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends;
    (xv) deterioration in the experience of the  closed
    block  established in connection with the reorganization of
    MLIC; (xvi) economic, political, currency and other risks
    relating to the Company s international operations;
    (xvii) the effects of business disruption or economic
    contraction due to terrorism or other hostilities;
    (xviii) the Company s ability to identify and
    consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to
    successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal
    disruption; and (xix) other risks and uncertainties
    described from time to time in MetLife s filings with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).

The Company specifically disclaims any obligation to update or
    revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new
    information, future developments or otherwise.

Executive
    Summary  

MetLife is a leading provider of insurance and other financial
    services with operations throughout the United States and
    the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through
    its domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates,
    MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and
    homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial
    services to individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance
    and retirement   savings products and services to
    corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into
    five operating segments: Institutional, Individual,
    Auto   Home, International and Reinsurance, as well as
    Corporate   Other.

The management s discussion and analysis which follows
    isolates, in order to be meaningful, the results of the
    acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding
    certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from

57

Table of Contents   

Citigroup Inc. ( Citigroup ), and substantially all of
    Citigroup s international insurance businesses
    (collectively,  Travelers ) in the period over period
    comparison as the Travelers acquisition was not included in the
    results of the Company until July 1, 2005. The
    Travelers  amounts which have been isolated represent the
    results of the Travelers legal entities which have been
    acquired. These amounts represent the impact of the Travelers
    acquisition; however, as business currently transacted through
    the acquired Travelers legal entities is transitioned to legal
    entities already owned by the Company, some of which has already
    occurred, the identification of the Travelers legal entity
    business will not necessarily be indicative of the impact of the
    Travelers acquisition on the results of the Company.

As a part of the Travelers acquisition, management realigned
    certain products and services within several of the
    Company s segments to better conform to the way it manages
    and assesses its business. Accordingly, all prior period segment
    results have been adjusted to reflect such product
    reclassifications. Also in connection with the Travelers
    acquisition, management has utilized its economic capital model
    to evaluate the deployment of capital based upon the unique and
    specific nature of the risks inherent in the Company s
    existing and newly acquired businesses and has adjusted such
    allocations based upon this model.

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   

The Company reported $4,180 million in net income available
    to common shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of
    $5.48 for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
    $6,159 million in net income available to common
    shareholders and earnings per diluted common share of $7.99 for
    the year ended December 31, 2006. Net income available to
    common shareholders decreased by $1,979 million, or 32%,
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the 2006
    period.

The decrease in net income available to common shareholders was
    primarily due to a decrease in income from discontinued
    operations of $3,185 million, net of income tax. This
    decrease in income from discontinued operations was principally
    driven by a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the
    sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties
    in Manhattan, New York, that was recognized during the year
    ended December 31, 2006. Also contributing to the decrease
    was lower net investment income and net investment gains
    (losses) from discontinued operations related to real estate
    properties sold or held-for-sale during the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower income from
    discontinued operations related to the sale of MetLife Insurance
    Limited ( MetLife Australia ) annuities and pension
    businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and
    lower income from discontinued operations related to the sale of
    SSRM Holdings, Inc. ( SSRM ) resulting from a
    reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during
    the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year
    December 31, 2006.

An increase in other expenses of $579 million, net of
    income tax, decreased net income available to common
    shareholders. The increase in other expenses was primarily due
    to higher DAC amortization resulting from business growth, lower
    net investment losses in the current year and the net impact of
    revisions to management s assumption used to determine
    estimated gross profits and margins in both years. In addition,
    other expenses increased due to higher compensation, higher
    interest expense on debt and interest on tax contingencies,
    higher minority interest expense, the net impact of revisions to
    certain liabilities in both periods, asset write-offs, higher
    general spending and expenses related to growth initiatives,
    partially offset by lower legal costs and integration costs
    incurred in the prior year.

An increase in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances associated with an increase in the average policyholder
    account balance decreased net income available to common
    shareholders by $371 million, net of income tax.

Partially offsetting the decrease in net income available to
    common shareholders was an increase in net investment income of
    $1,251 million, net of income tax, primarily due to an
    increase in the average asset base and an increase in yields.
    Growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed
    maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures,
    and other limited partnership interests. Higher yields was
    primarily due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities,
    other limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds,
    equity securities and improved securities lending results,
    partially offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures,
    cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, hedge funds
    and mortgage loans. Management anticipates that investment
    income and the related yields on other limited partnership
    interests may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in
    the equity and credit markets during 2007.

58

Table of Contents   

Additionally, there was a decrease in net investment losses of
    $419 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a
    reduction of losses on fixed maturity securities resulting
    principally from the 2006 portfolio repositioning in a rising
    interest rate environment, increased gains from asset-based
    foreign currency transactions due to a decline in the
    U.S. dollar year over year against several major currencies
    and increased gains on equity securities, partially offset by
    increased losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and
    reduced gains on real estate and real estate joint ventures.

The net effect of increases in premiums, fees and other revenues
    of $1,420 million, net of income tax, across all of the
    Company s operating segments and increases in policyholder
    benefit and claims and policyholder dividends of
    $924 million, net of income tax, was attributable to
    overall business growth and increased net income available to
    common shareholders.

The remainder of the variance is due to the change in effective
    tax rates between periods.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   

The Company reported $6,159 million in net income available
    to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of
    $7.99 for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
    $4,651 million in net income available to common
    shareholders and diluted earnings per common share of $6.16 for
    the year ended December 31, 2005. Excluding the acquisition
    of Travelers, which contributed $317 million during the
    first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net
    income available to common shareholders increased by
    $1,191 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    compared to the 2005 period.

Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment
    income and net investment gains related to real estate
    properties that the Company had classified as available-for-sale
    or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and
    2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of
    SSRM on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended
    December 31, 2005, the operations of P.T. Sejahtera
    ( MetLife Indonesia ) which was sold on
    September 29, 2005. Income from discontinued operations,
    net of income tax, increased by $1,579 million, or 96%, to
    $3,222 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $1,643 million for the comparable 2005 period. This
    increase was primarily due to a gain of $3 billion, net of
    income tax, on the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as a
    gain of $32 million, net of income tax, related to the sale
    of SSRM during the year ended December 31, 2006. This
    increase was partially offset by gains during the year ended
    December 31, 2005 including $1,193 million, net of
    income tax, on the sales of the One Madison Avenue and 200 Park
    Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on
    the sales of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and
    $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In
    addition, there was lower net investment income and net
    investment gains from discontinued operations related to other
    real estate properties sold or held-for-sale during the year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005.

Net investment losses increased by $842 million, net of
    income tax, to a loss of $898 million, net of income tax,
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from a loss of
    $56 million, net of income tax, for the comparable 2005
    period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers,
    which contributed a loss of $191 million, net of income
    tax, during the first six months of 2006 to the year over year
    increase, net investment losses increased by $651 million.
    The increase in net investment losses was due to a combination
    of losses from the mark-to-market on derivatives and foreign
    currency transaction losses during 2006, largely driven by
    increases in U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the
    dollar against the major currencies the Company hedges, notably
    the euro and pound sterling.

Dividends on the Holding Company s Series A preferred
    shares and Series B preferred shares ( Preferred
    Shares ) issued in connection with financing the
    acquisition of Travelers increased by $71 million, to
    $134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006,
    from $63 million for the comparable 2005 period, as the
    preferred stock was issued in June 2005.

The remainder of the increase of $334 million in net income
    available to common shareholders for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 compared to the 2005 period was primarily
    due to an increase in premiums, fees and other revenues
    attributable to continued business growth across all of the
    Company s operating segments. Also contributing to the
    increase was higher net investment income primarily due to an
    overall increase in the asset base, an increase in fixed
    maturity security yields, improved results on real estate and
    real estate joint ventures, mortgage

59

Table of Contents   

loans, and other limited partnership interests, as well as
    higher short-term interest rates on cash equivalents and
    short-term investments. These increases were partially offset by
    a decline in net investment income from securities lending
    results, and bond and commercial mortgage prepayment fees.
    Favorable underwriting results for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 were partially offset by a decrease in
    net interest margins. These increases were partially offset by
    an increase in expenses primarily due to higher interest expense
    on debt, increased general spending, higher compensation and
    commission costs and higher expenses related to growth
    initiatives and information technology projects, partially
    offset by a reduction in Travelers  integration expenses,
    principally corporate incentives.

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

On August 31, 2007, MetLife Australia completed the sale of
    its annuities and pension businesses to a third party for
    $25 million in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon
    disposal of $41 million, net of income tax, which was
    adjusted in the fourth quarter of 2007 for additional
    transaction costs. The Company reclassified the assets and
    liabilities of the annuities and pension businesses within
    MetLife Australia, which is reported in the International
    segment, to assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale
    and the operations of the business to discontinued operations
    for all periods presented. Included within the assets to be sold
    were certain fixed maturity securities in a loss position for
    which the Company recognized a net investment loss on a
    consolidated basis of $59 million, net of income tax, for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, because the Company no
    longer had the intent to hold such securities.

On June 28, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50%
    interest in a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited
    ( MetLife Fubon ), for $56 million in cash,
    resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of
    the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition,
    and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of
    MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million,
    respectively, were included in the Company s consolidated
    balance sheet. The Company s investment for the initial 50%
    interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million. The Company used
    the equity method of accounting for such investment in MetLife
    Fubon. The Company s share of the joint venture s
    results for the six months ended June 30, 2007, was a loss
    of $3 million. The fair value of the assets acquired and
    the liabilities assumed in the step acquisition at June 30,
    2007, was $427 million and $371 million, respectively.
    No additional goodwill was recorded as a part of the step
    acquisition. As a result of this acquisition, additional VOBA
    and value of distribution agreements of $45 million and
    $5 million, respectively, were recorded and both have a
    weighted average amortization period of 16 years.

On June 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its
    Bermuda insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance,
    Ltd. ( MLII ), to a third party for $33 million
    in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of
    $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at
    disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million
    was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection
    with this disposition.

On September 29, 2005, the Company completed the sale of
    MetLife Indonesia to a third party, resulting in a gain upon
    disposal of $10 million, net of income tax. As a result of
    this sale, the Company recognized income (loss) from
    discontinued operations of $5 million, net of income tax,
    for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Company
    reclassified the operations of MetLife Indonesia into
    discontinued operations for all years presented.

On September 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition
    of CitiStreet Associates, a division of CitiStreet LLC, which is
    primarily involved in the distribution of annuity products and
    retirement plans to the education, healthcare, and
    not-for-profit markets, for $56 million, of which
    $2 million was allocated to goodwill and $54 million
    to other identifiable intangibles, specifically the value of
    customer relationships acquired, which have a weighted average
    amortization period of 16 years. CitiStreet Associates was
    integrated with MetLife Resources, a focused distribution
    channel of MetLife, which is dedicated to provide retirement
    plans and financial services to the same markets.

On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of
    Travelers for $12.1 billion. The results of Travelers 
    operations were included in the Company s financial
    statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the
    acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly
    the size and scale of the Company s core insurance and
    annuity products and expanded the Company s presence in
    both the retirement   savings  domestic

60

Table of Contents   

and international markets. The distribution agreements executed
    with Citigroup as part of the acquisition provide the Company
    with one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry.

The initial consideration paid in 2005 by the Company for the
    acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and
    22,436,617 shares of the Holding Company s common
    stock with a market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and
    $100 million in other transaction costs. Additional
    consideration of $115 million was paid by the Holding
    Company to Citigroup in 2006 as a result of the finalization by
    both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial
    statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the
    provisions of the acquisition agreement. In addition to cash
    on-hand, the purchase price was financed through the issuance of
    common stock, debt securities, common equity units and preferred
    stock. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    Sources. 

On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM
    to a third party for $328 million in cash and stock. The
    Company reported the operations of SSRM in discontinued
    operations. Under the terms of the sale agreement, MetLife will
    have an opportunity to receive additional payments based on,
    among other things, certain revenue retention and growth
    measures. The purchase price is also subject to reduction over
    five years, depending on retention of certain MetLife-related
    business. Also under the terms of such agreement, MetLife had
    the opportunity to receive additional consideration for the
    retention of certain customers for a specific period in 2005.
    Upon finalization of the computation, the Company received
    payments of $30 million, net of income tax, in the second
    quarter of 2006 and $12 million, net of income tax, in the
    fourth quarter of 2005 due to the retention of these specific
    customer accounts. In the first quarter of 2007, the Company
    received a payment of $16 million, net of income tax, as a
    result of the revenue retention and growth measure provision in
    the sales agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company
    accrued a liability for $2 million, net of income tax,
    related to the termination of certain MetLife-related business.
    In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated
    $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with
    respect to the indemnities provided in connection with the sale
    of SSRM, resulting in a benefit to the Company of
    $2 million, net of income tax. The Company believes that
    future payments relating to these indemnities are not probable.

See    Subsequent Events  for information on
    the Company s acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2007.

Industry
    Trends  

The Company s segments continue to be influenced by a
    variety of trends that affect the industry.

Financial and Economic Environment.   During
    2007, the global capital markets reassessed the credit risk
    inherent in sub-prime mortgages. This reassessment led to a
    fairly broad repricing of all credit risk assets and strained
    market liquidity. Global central banks intervened to stabilize
    market conditions and protect against downside risks to economic
    growth. Still, market and economic conditions continued to
    deteriorate. The economic community s consensus outlook of
    global economic growth is lower for calendar year 2008, with a
    sizable minority of economists forecasting a recessionary
    environment. The global capital markets have adjusted towards
    this consensus outlook, with interest rates and equity prices
    falling and risk spreads widening. Slow growth and recessionary
    periods are often associated with declining asset prices, lower
    interest rates, credit rating agency downgrades and increasing
    default losses. The global capital markets are also less liquid
    now than in more normal environments. Liquidity conditions
    impact the cost of purchasing and selling assets and, at times,
    the ability to purchase or sell assets. These adjustments in the
    global capital markets have also resulted in higher realized and
    expected volatility.

As expectations for global economic growth are lowered, factors
    such as consumer spending, business investment, government
    spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets,
    and inflation all affect the business and economic environment
    and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of the business we
    conduct. In an economic downturn characterized by higher
    unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings,
    lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the
    demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely
    affected. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.

61

Table of Contents   

Demographics.   In the coming decade, a key
    driver shaping the actions of the life insurance industry will
    be the rising income protection, wealth accumulation and needs
    of the retiring Baby Boomers. As a result of increasing
    longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings
    to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years. Helping
    the Baby Boomers to accumulate assets for retirement and
    subsequently to convert these assets into retirement income
    represents an opportunity for the life insurance industry.

Life insurers are well positioned to address the Baby
    Boomers  rapidly increasing need for savings tools and for
    income protection. The Company believes that, among life
    insurers, those with strong brands, high financial strength
    ratings and broad distribution, are best positioned to
    capitalize on the opportunity to offer income protection
    products to Baby Boomers.

Moreover, the life insurance industry s products and the
    needs they are designed to address are complex. The Company
    believes that individuals approaching retirement age will need
    to seek information to plan for and manage their retirements and
    that, in the workplace, as employees take greater responsibility
    for their benefit options and retirement planning, they will
    need information about their possible individual needs. One of
    the challenges for the life insurance industry will be the
    delivery of this information in a cost effective manner.

Competitive Pressures.   The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology and risk management,
    which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth
    in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the
    industry s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to
    intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength
    and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for
    sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market
    participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional
    distribution capability and the information technology needed to
    offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly
    sophisticated industry client base.

Regulatory Changes.   The life insurance
    industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and
    services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
    introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine
    capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for
    the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or
    currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and
    capital requirements of the industry. In addition, regulators
    have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several
    markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
    variable annuities and group products.

Pension Plans.   On August 17, 2006,
    President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006
    ( PPA ) into law. The PPA is considered to be the most
    sweeping pension legislation since the adoption of the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ) on
    September 2, 1974. The provisions of the PPA may, over
    time, have a significant impact on demand for pension,
    retirement savings, and lifestyle protection products in both
    the institutional and retail markets. The impact of the
    legislation may have a positive effect on the life insurance and
    financial services industries in the future.

Impact of
    Hurricanes  

On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the
    states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, causing
    catastrophic damage to these coastal regions. MetLife s
    cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Katrina were
    $314 million, $333 million and $335 million at
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily
    arising from the Company s homeowners business. During the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company
    recognized net losses, net of income tax and reinsurance
    recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other
    reinsurance-related premium adjustments related to the
    catastrophe, of ($13) million, ($2) million and
    $134 million, respectively.

On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma made landfall across
    the state of Florida. MetLife s cumulative gross losses
    from Hurricane Wilma were $66 million, $64 million and
    $57 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, primarily arising from the Company s
    homeowners and automobile businesses. During the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company s
    Auto   Home segment recognized net losses, net of
    income

62

Table of Contents   

tax and reinsurance recoverables, of ($3) million and
    $32 million, respectively, related to Hurricane Wilma. The
    Company did not recognize any loss during the year ended
    December 31, 2007, related to Hurricane Wilma.

Additional hurricane-related losses may be recorded in future
    periods as claims are received from insureds and claims to
    reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent
    upon the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may
    be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with
    Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and otherwise. In addition,
    lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed in
    Louisiana and Mississippi challenging denial of claims for
    damages caused to property during Hurricane Katrina.
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is a named
    party in some of these lawsuits. In addition, rulings in cases
    in which Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is
    not a party may affect interpretation of its policies.
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company intends to
    vigorously defend these matters. However, any adverse rulings
    could result in an increase in the Company s
    hurricane-related claim exposure and losses. Based on
    information known by management, it does not believe that
    additional claim losses resulting from Hurricane Katrina will
    have a material adverse impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Summary
    of Critical Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial
    statements. The most critical estimates include those used in
    determining:

(i) 

the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market
    values;

(ii) 

investment impairments;

(iii) 

the recognition of income on certain investments;

(iv) 

the application of the consolidation rules to certain
    investments;

(v) 

the fair value of and accounting for derivatives;

(vi) 

the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment
    and amortization of VOBA;

(vii) 

the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;

(viii) 

the liability for future policyholder benefits;

(ix) 

accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax
    assets;

(x) 

accounting for reinsurance transactions;

(xi) 

accounting for employee benefit plans; and

(xii) 

the liability for litigation and regulatory matters.

The application of purchase accounting requires the use of
    estimation techniques in determining the fair values of assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed   the most
    significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical
    estimates. In applying these policies, management makes
    subjective and complex judgments that frequently require
    estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of
    these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in
    the insurance and financial services industries; others are
    specific to the Company s businesses and operations. Actual
    results could differ from these estimates.

Investments   

The Company s principal investments are in fixed maturity
    and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, policy
    loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnerships, short-term investments, and other invested assets.
    The Company s investments are exposed to three primary
    sources of risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The
    financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks,
    are those associated with the determination of fair values, the
    recognition of impairments, the recognition of income on certain
    investments, and the potential consolidation of previously
    unconsolidated subsidiaries.

63

Table of Contents   

The Company s investments in fixed maturity and equity
    securities are classified as available-for-sale, except for
    trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair
    value. The fair values for public fixed maturity securities and
    public equity securities are based on quoted market prices or
    estimates from independent pricing services. However, in cases
    where quoted market prices are not available, such as for
    private fixed maturities, fair values are estimated using
    present value or valuation techniques. The determination of fair
    values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on:
    (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities the
    Company deems to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions
    deemed appropriate given the circumstances. The fair value
    estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on
    available market information and judgments about financial
    instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of
    expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer
    or counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value
    include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call
    provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry
    sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable
    securities. The use of different methodologies and assumptions
    may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

One of the significant estimates related to available-for-sale
    securities is the evaluation of investments for
    other-than-temporary impairments. The assessment of whether
    impairments have occurred is based on management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair
    value. The Company s review of its fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.
    Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about
    the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions
    and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
    earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the
    impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:

(i) 

the length of time and the extent to which the market value has
    been below cost or amortized cost;

(ii) 

the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
    experiencing significant financial difficulties;

(iii) 

the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
    sub-sector;

(iv) 

the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed
    geographic locations;

(v) 

the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer,
    series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type
    of loss or has exhausted natural resources;

(vi) 

the Company s ability and intent to hold the security for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value
    to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost;

(vii) 

unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed
    and asset-backed securities; and

(viii) 

other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for
    impairments in value deemed to be other-than-temporary in the
    period in which the determination is made. These impairments are
    included within net investment gains (losses) and the cost basis
    of the fixed maturity and equity securities is reduced
    accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis
    for subsequent recoveries in value.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on
    other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based
    upon the Company s periodic evaluation and assessment of
    known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset
    class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
    conditions change and new information becomes available.
    Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects
    changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such
    evaluations are revised.

64

Table of Contents   

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities, certain investment transactions,
    trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market conditions,
    which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be
    earned.

Additionally, when the Company enters into certain structured
    investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and other
    limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be
    the primary beneficiary under Financial Accounting Standards
    Board ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN )
    No. 46(r),  Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities   An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 ,
    it may be required to consolidate such investments. The
    accounting rules for the determination of the primary
    beneficiary are complex and require evaluation of the
    contractual rights and obligations associated with each party
    involved in the entity, an estimate of the entity s
    expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation
    of such estimates to each party.

The use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the
    determination of the fair value of investments, the timing and
    amount of impairments, the recognition of income, or
    consolidation of investments may have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions
    including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts. The
    Company uses derivatives primarily to manage various risks. The
    risks being managed are variability in cash flows or changes in
    fair values related to financial instruments and currency
    exposure associated with net investments in certain foreign
    operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit
    derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically
    replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily
    available in the cash market. The Company also purchases certain
    securities, issues certain insurance policies and engages in
    certain reinsurance contracts that have embedded derivatives.

Fair value of derivatives is determined by quoted market prices
    or through the use of pricing models. The determination of fair
    value, when quoted market values are not available, is based on
    valuation methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate under
    the circumstances. Derivative valuations can be affected by
    changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, market volatility, and
    liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates
    and assumptions used in pricing models. Such assumptions include
    estimates of volatility, interest rates, foreign currency
    exchange rates, other financial indices and credit ratings.
    Essential to the analysis of the fair value is risk of
    counterparty default. The use of different assumptions may have
    a material effect on the estimated derivative fair value
    amounts, as well as the amount of reported net income. Also,
    fluctuations in the fair value of derivatives which have not
    been designated for hedge accounting may result in significant
    volatility in net income.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company from that
    previously reported. Measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging
    relationships are also subject to interpretations and
    estimations and different interpretations or estimates may have
    a material effect on the amount reported in net income.

Additionally, there is a risk that embedded derivatives
    requiring bifurcation may not be identified and reported at fair
    value in the consolidated financial statements and that their
    related changes in fair value could materially affect reported
    net income.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired   

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issue expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    reflects the estimated fair

65

Table of Contents   

value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company
    acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price
    that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future
    cash flows from the business in-force at the acquisition date.
    VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections, by each
    block of business, of future policy and contract charges,
    premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance,
    surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns and other
    factors. Actual experience on the purchased business may vary
    from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for
    reporting purposes.

DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is
    primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting
    expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term or reinsurance treaty.

DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment-type contracts are
    amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or
    gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described
    below.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating
    and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance,
    non-participating whole life insurance, non-medical health
    insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire
    premium paying period in proportion to the present value of
    actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present
    value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement
    of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity,
    persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or
    policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include
    provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the
    assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit
    liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy
    issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed
    to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a
    premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy
    issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium
    volumes.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating,
    dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives
    of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future
    gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates
    in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The
    future gross margins are dependent principally on investment
    returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such
    as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying
    traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross
    margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates
    that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor
    changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely
    to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization.
    Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross
    margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the
    actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross
    margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is
    re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to
    current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those
    previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will
    increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The
    opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below
    the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period,
    the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force,
    which impacts expected future gross margins.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable
    universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity
    contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in
    proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The
    amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at
    inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future
    gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of
    the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency,
    interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of
    any hedges used, and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that
    investment returns, expenses, and persistency are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that
    period. When the actual gross profits change from previously
    estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA
    amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
    or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits
    exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization
    will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are
    below the previously estimated gross profits.

66

Table of Contents   

Each reporting period, the Company also updates the actual
    amount of business remaining in-force, which impacts expected
    future gross profits.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period. Returns that are higher than the Company s
    long-term expectation produce higher account balances, which
    increases the Company s future fee expectations and
    decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death
    benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross
    profits. The opposite result occurs when returns are lower than
    the Company s long-term expectation. The Company s
    practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from
    returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation
    in equity markets is not changed by short-term market
    fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim
    deviations are expected. The Company monitors these changes and
    only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation
    changes. The effect of an increase/(decrease) by 100 basis
    points in the assumed future rate of return is reasonably likely
    to result in a decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA balances
    of approximately $95 million with an offset to the
    Company s unearned revenue liability of approximately
    $20 million for this factor.

The Company also reviews periodically other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business.
    Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation
    of estimated gross margins and profits which may have
    significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and
    VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period
    increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    assumption update causes expected future gross margins and
    profits to decrease.

Over the past two years, the Company s most significant
    assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future
    gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA
    have been updated due to revisions to expected future investment
    returns, expenses, in-force or persistency assumptions and
    policyholder dividends on contracts included within the
    Individual segment. The Company expects these assumptions to be
    the ones most reasonably likely to cause significant changes in
    the future. Changes in these assumptions can be offsetting and
    the Company is unable to predict their movement or offsetting
    impact over time.

The following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA
    within the Company s Individual segment of changing each of
    the respective assumptions during the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006:

As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, DAC and VOBA for the
    Individual segment were $14.2 billion and
    $14.0 billion, respectively, and for the total Company were
    $21.5 billion and $20.8 billion, respectively.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets
    acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment
    at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances,
    such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that
    there may be justification for conducting an interim test.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, goodwill within
    Corporate   Other is allocated to reporting units

67

Table of Contents   

within the Company s business segments. If the carrying
    value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its fair
    value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and recorded as
    a charge against net income. The fair values of the reporting
    units are determined using a market multiple, a discounted cash
    flow model, or a cost approach. The critical estimates necessary
    in determining fair value are projected earnings, comparative
    market multiples and the discount rate.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance.
    Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time
    and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of
    expected future benefits to be paid, reduced by the present
    value of expected future premiums. Such liabilities are
    established based on methods and underlying assumptions in
    accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial standards.
    Principal assumptions used in the establishment of liabilities
    for future policy benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy
    lapse, renewal, retirement, investment returns, inflation,
    expenses and other contingent events as appropriate to the
    respective product type. These assumptions are established at
    the time the policy is issued and are intended to estimate the
    experience for the period the policy benefits are payable.
    Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities are established on a
    block of business basis. If experience is less favorable than
    assumptions, additional liabilities may be required, resulting
    in a charge to policyholder benefits and claims.

Liabilities for future policy benefits for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Other policyholder funds include claims that have been
    reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported on
    life and non-medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid
    claims are estimated based upon the Company s historical
    experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the
    effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk
    management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and
    subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated
    liabilities are included in the results of operations in the
    period in which the changes occur.

Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income
    benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and
    secondary and paid up guarantees relating to certain life
    policies are based on estimates of the expected value of
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal
    and variable life secondary guarantees and
     paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent
    with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the
    same variability and risk.

The Company offers certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders. These include guaranteed
    minimum withdrawal benefit ( GMWB ) riders and
    guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit ( GMAB )
    riders. GMWB and GMAB riders are embedded derivatives, which are
    measured at fair value separately from the host variable annuity
    contract, with changes in fair value reported in net investment
    gains (losses). The fair values of GMWB and GMAB riders are
    calculated based on actuarial and capital market assumptions
    related to the projected cash flows, including benefits and
    related contract charges, over the lives of the contracts,
    incorporating expectations concerning policyholder behavior.
    These riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining markets, causing an increase in liabilities for future
    policy benefits, negatively affecting net income.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and
    riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities
    result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The
    effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in
    the results of operations in the period in which the changes
    occur.

68

Table of Contents   

Income
    Taxes   

Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the
    Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing
    jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company
    provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently
    payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences
    between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
    liabilities. The Company s accounting for income taxes
    represents management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The
    realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of
    sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward
    periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction.
    Valuation allowances are established when management determines,
    based on available information, that it is more likely than not
    that deferred income tax assets will not be realized.
    Significant judgment is required in determining whether
    valuation allowances should be established, as well as the
    amount of such allowances. When making such determination,
    consideration is given to, among other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company may be required to change its provision for income
    taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances
    include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is
    challenged by taxing authorities or when estimates used in
    determining valuation allowances on deferred tax assets
    significantly change or when receipt of new information
    indicates the need for adjustment in valuation allowances.
    Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax laws, tax
    regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations,
    could have an impact on the provision for income tax and the
    effective tax rate. Any such changes could significantly affect
    the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in
    the year these changes occur.

As described more fully in    Adoption of New
    Accounting Pronouncements , the Company adopted
    FIN No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
    Taxes   An Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109  ( FIN 48 ) effective
    January 1, 2007. Under FIN 48, the Company determines
    whether it is more-likely-than-not that a tax position will be
    sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities
    before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial
    statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of
    benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being
    realized upon settlement.

Reinsurance   

The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a
    provider and a purchaser of reinsurance for its life and
    property and casualty insurance products. Accounting for
    reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions and estimates,
    particularly related to the future performance of the underlying
    business and the potential impact of counterparty credit risks.
    The Company periodically reviews actual and anticipated
    experience compared to the aforementioned assumptions used to
    establish assets and liabilities relating to ceded and assumed
    reinsurance and evaluates the financial strength of
    counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using criteria
    similar to that evaluated in the security impairment process
    discussed previously. Additionally, for each of its reinsurance
    contracts, the Company determines if the contract provides
    indemnification against loss or liability relating to insurance
    risk, in accordance with applicable accounting standards. The
    Company reviews all contractual features, particularly those
    that may limit the amount of insurance risk to which the
    reinsurer is subject or features that delay the timely
    reimbursement of claims. If the Company determines that a
    reinsurance contract does not expose the reinsurer to a
    reasonable possibility of a significant loss from insurance
    risk, the Company records the contract using the deposit method
    of accounting.

69

Table of Contents   

Employee
    Benefit Plans   

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer pension and other postretirement plans covering
    employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The
    obligations and expenses associated with these plans require an
    extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate, expected
    rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation
    increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as assumptions
    regarding participant demographics such as rate and age of
    retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management, in
    consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm,
    determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors
    such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
    currently available market and industry data, and expected
    benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ
    materially from actual results due to, among other factors,
    changing market and economic conditions and changes in
    participant demographics. These differences may have a
    significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements and liquidity.

Litigation
    Contingencies   

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including
    the Company s asbestos-related liability, are especially
    difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data
    and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect
    liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the
    assumptions used to estimate the Company s asbestos-related
    liability include the number of future claims, the cost to
    resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in
    pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new
    claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the
    law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible
    impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to
    allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when
    exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos
    exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future
    adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual
    basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to
    liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and
    litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
    Company s consolidated financial statements. It is possible
    that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company s
    litigation and regulatory investigations, including
    asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in
    the determination of amounts recorded could have a material
    effect upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash
    flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Economic
    Capital  

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in MetLife s businesses. As a part of the
    economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is
    credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity.
    This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory risk-based
    capital ( RBC ) formula, which is not as refined in
    its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the
    Company s businesses.

70

Table of Contents   

Results
    of Operations  

Discussion
    of Results   

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Company for the years indicated:

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   The Company   

Income
    from Continuing Operations   

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $1,209 million, or 39%, to $4,280 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $3,071 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

The following table provides the change from the prior year in
    income from continuing operations by segment:

71

Table of Contents   

The increase in the International segment s income from
    continuing operations was primarily attributable to the
    following factors:

An increase in Argentina s income from continuing
    operations primarily due to a net reduction of liabilities
    resulting from pension reform, a reduction in claim liabilities
    resulting from experience reviews in both the current and prior
    years, higher premiums resulting from higher pension
    contributions attributable to higher participant salaries,
    higher net investment income resulting from capital
    contributions in the prior year, and a smaller increase in
    market indexed policyholder liabilities without a corresponding
    decrease in net investment income, partially offset by the
    reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new
    pension system reform regulation, an increase in retention
    incentives related to pension reform, as well as lower trading
    portfolio income. Argentina also benefited, in both the current
    and prior years, from the utilization of tax loss carryforwards
    against which valuation allowances had been previously
    established.

Mexico s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily due to a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities
    caused by a decrease in the unrealized investment results on
    invested assets supporting those liabilities relative to the
    prior year, the favorable impact of experience refunds during
    the first quarter of 2007, a reduction in claim liabilities
    resulting from an experience review and the unfavorable impact
    in the prior year resulting from an adjustment to experience
    refunds in its institutional business, a year over year decrease
    in DAC amortization resulting from management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both
    the current and prior years, a decrease in liabilities based on
    a review of outstanding remittances, and growth in its
    institutional and universal life businesses. These increases in
    Mexico s income from continuing operations were partially
    offset by lower fees resulting from management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits, the
    favorable impact in the prior year associated with a large group
    policy that was not renewed, a decrease in various one-time
    revenue items, lower investment yields, the favorable impact in
    the prior year of liabilities related to employment matters that
    were reduced, and the benefit in the prior year from the
    elimination of liabilities for pending claims determined to be
    invalid.

Taiwan s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily driven by an increase due to higher DAC amortization
    in the prior year resulting from a loss recognition adjustment
    and restructuring costs, partially offset by the favorable
    impact of liability refinements in the prior year, as well as
    higher policyholder liabilities related to loss recognition in
    the fourth quarter of 2006.

Brazil s income from continuing operations increased due to
    the unfavorable impact of increases in policyholder liabilities
    due to higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of
    business and an increase in litigation liabilities in the prior
    year, the unfavorable impact of the reversal of a tax credit in
    the prior year, as well as growth of the in-force business.

Ireland s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily due to the utilization of net operating losses for
    which a valuation allowance had been previously established,
    higher investment income, partially offset by higher
     start-up 
    expenses and currency transaction losses.

Japan s income from continuing operations increased due to
    improved hedge results and business growth, partially offset by
    the impact of foreign currency transaction losses.

Hong Kong s income from continuing operations increased due
    to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife
    Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well
    as business growth.

Chile s income from continuing operations increased
    primarily due to growth of the in-force business, higher joint
    venture income and higher returns on inflation indexed
    securities, partially offset by higher compensation,
    infrastructure and marketing expenses.

Income from continuing operations increased in the United
    Kingdom due to a reduction of claim liabilities resulting from
    an experience review, offset by an unearned premium calculation
    refinement.

Australia s income from continuing operations increased due
    to growth of the in-force business and changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates.

72

Table of Contents   

These increases in income from continuing operations were
    partially offset by a decrease in the home office due to higher
    economic capital charges and investment expenses, an increase in
    contingent tax expenses in the current year, as well as higher
    spending due to growth and initiatives, partially offset by the
    elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged
    to the International segment, and a tax benefit associated with
    a prior year income tax expense related to a revision of an
    estimate.

India s income from continuing operations decreased
    primarily due to headcount increases and growth initiatives, as
    well as the impact of valuation allowances established against
    losses in both years.

South Korea s income from continuing operations decreased
    due to a favorable impact in the prior year associated with the
    implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as
    well as additional expenses in the current year associated with
    growth and infrastructure initiatives, partially offset by
    continued growth and lower DAC amortization, both in the
    variable universal life business.

The Institutional segment s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to lower net investment
    losses, an increase in interest margins, an increase in
    underwriting results, the impact of revisions to certain
    expenses in both periods, partially offset by higher expenses
    due to an increase in non-deferrable volume-related and
    corporate support expenses and an increase in DAC amortization
    resulting from the ongoing implementation of Statement of
    Position
     (  SOP ) 05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts
      ( SOP 05-1 ) 
    in the current year.

Corporate   Other s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to higher net investment
    income, lower net investment losses, lower corporate expenses,
    higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in the prior
    year, and lower legal costs, partially offset by a decrease in
    tax benefits, higher interest expense on debt, higher interest
    on tax contingencies, and higher interest credited to bankholder
    deposits.

The Individual segment s income from continuing operations
    increased primarily due to a decrease in net investment losses,
    higher fee income from separate account products, higher net
    investment income on blocks of business not driven by interest
    margins and an increase in interest margins, partially offset by
    higher DAC amortization, unfavorable underwriting results in
    life products, higher general expenses, the impact of revisions
    to certain liabilities in both years, the write-off of a
    receivable in the current year, an increase in the closed
    block-related policyholder dividend obligation, higher annuity
    benefits, an increase in policyholder dividends and an increase
    in interest credited to policyholder account balances.

The Auto   Home segment s income from continuing
    operations increased primarily due to an increase in premiums
    and other revenues, an increase in net investment income, an
    increase in net investment gains and a decrease in other
    expenses. These were partially offset by losses related to
    higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures, higher losses
    due to severity, an increase in unallocated claims adjusting
    expenses and an increase from a reduction in favorable
    development of prior year losses, partially offset by a decrease
    in catastrophe losses, which included favorable development of
    prior year catastrophe reserves, all of which are related to
    policyholder benefits and claims. Also offsetting the increase
    in income from continuing operations was a decrease in average
    earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe
    reinsurance costs.

The Reinsurance segment s income from continuing operations
    increased primarily due to an increase in premiums due to
    additional business in-force from facultative and automatic
    treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business, an
    increase in net investment income due to growth in the asset
    base, an increase in other revenues and a decrease in other
    expenses, partially offset by an increase in net investment
    losses which was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value
    of embedded derivatives associated with the reinsurance of
    annuity products on a funds withheld basis.

Revenues
    and Expenses   

Premiums,
    Fees and Other Revenues  

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $2,185 million, or 7%, to $34,739 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $32,554 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

73

Table of Contents   

The following table provides the change from the prior year in
    premiums, fees and other revenues by segment:

The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to
    increases in the non-medical health   other and group
    life businesses. The non-medical health   other
    business increased primarily due to growth in the dental,
    disability, accidental death   dismemberment
    ( AD D ) and individual disability insurance
    ( IDI ) businesses. Partially offsetting these
    increases is a decrease in the long-term care ( LTC )
    business, net of a decrease resulting from a shift to deposit
    liability-type contracts in the current year, partially offset
    by growth in the business. The group life business increased
    primarily due to business growth in term life and increases in
    corporate-owned life insurance and life insurance sold to
    postretirement benefit plans. These increases in the non-medical
    health   other and group life businesses were
    partially offset by a decrease in the retirement  
    savings business. The decrease in retirement   savings
    was primarily due to a decrease in structured settlement and
    pension closeout premiums, partially offset by an increase in
    other products.

The growth in the Reinsurance segment was primarily attributable
    to premiums from new facultative and automatic treaties and
    renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in all
    RGA s operating segments. In addition, other revenues
    increased due to an increase in surrender charges on
    asset-intensive business reinsured and an increase in fees
    associated with financial reinsurance.

The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the
    following factors:

An increase in Mexico s premiums, fees and other revenues
    due to higher fees and growth in its institutional and universal
    life businesses, a decrease in experience refunds during the
    first quarter of 2007 on Mexico s institutional business,
    as well as the adverse impact in the prior year of an adjustment
    for experience refunds on Mexico s institutional business,
    offset by lower fees resulting from management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    various one-time revenue items which benefited both the current
    and prior years.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Hong Kong
    primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest
    in MetLife Fubon and the resulting consolidation of the
    operation as well as business growth.

Chile s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to higher annuity sales, higher institutional
    premiums from its traditional and bank distribution channels,
    and the decrease in the prior year resulting from
    management s decision not to match aggressive pricing in
    the marketplace.

South Korea s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to higher fees from growth in its guaranteed
    annuity and variable universal life businesses.

Brazil s premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates and business growth.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in Japan due to an
    increase in reinsurance assumed.

Australia s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to growth in the institutional and reinsurance
    business in-force, an increase in retention levels and changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates.

74

Table of Contents   

Argentina s premiums, fees and other revenues increased due
    to higher pension contributions resulting from higher
    participant salaries and a higher salary threshold subject to
    fees and growth in bancassurance, offset by the reduction of
    cost of insurance fees as a result of the new pension system
    reform regulation.

Taiwan s and India s premiums, fees and other revenues
    increased primarily due to business growth.

These increases in premiums, fees and other revenues were
    partially offset by a decrease in the United Kingdom due to an
    unearned premium calculation refinement, partially offset by
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher
    fee income from variable life and annuity and investment-type
    products and growth in premiums from other life products,
    partially offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and
    a decline in premiums associated with the Company s closed
    block business, in line with expectations.

The growth in the Auto   Home segment was primarily
    due to an increase in premiums related to increased exposures,
    an increase in various voluntary and involuntary programs, and a
    change in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory
    examination, as well as an increase in other revenues primarily
    due to slower than anticipated claim payments in 2006. These
    increases were partially offset by a reduction in average earned
    premium per policy, and an increase in catastrophe reinsurance
    costs.

The increase in Corporate   Other was primarily
    related to the resolution of an indemnification claim associated
    with the 2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance
    Company ( GALIC ), partially offset by an adjustment
    of surrender values on corporate-owned life insurance policies.

Net
    Investment Income  

Net investment income increased by $1,924 million, or 11%,
    to $19,006 million for the year ended December 31,
    2007 from $17,082 million for the comparable 2006 period.
    Management attributes $1,336 million of this increase to
    growth in the average asset base and $588 million to an
    increase in yields. The increase in net investment income from
    growth in the average asset base was primarily within fixed
    maturity securities, mortgage loans, real estate joint ventures
    and other limited partnership interests. The increase in net
    investment income attributable to higher yields was primarily
    due to higher returns on fixed maturity securities, other
    limited partnership interests excluding hedge funds, equity
    securities and improved securities lending results, partially
    offset by lower returns on real estate joint ventures, cash,
    cash equivalents and short-term investments, hedge funds and
    mortgage loans. Management anticipates that investment income
    and the related yields on other limited partnership interests
    may decline during 2008 due to increased volatility in the
    equity and credit markets during 2007.

Interest
    Margin  

Interest margin, which represents the difference between
    interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account
    balances increased in the Institutional and Individual segments
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the
    prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income
    on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor
    adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate
    accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements. Interest
    credited is the amount attributed to insurance products,
    recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount
    credited to policyholder account balances for investment-type
    products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the
    current year impact of the interest rate assumptions established
    at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to policyholder
    account balances is subject to contractual terms, including some
    minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually over time to
    reflect market interest rate movements and may reflect actions
    by management to respond to competitive pressures and,
    therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)  

Net investment losses decreased by $644 million to a loss
    of $738 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from a loss of $1,382 million for the comparable 2006
    period. The decrease in net investment losses was

75

Table of Contents   

primarily due to a reduction of losses on fixed maturity
    securities resulting principally from the 2006 portfolio
    repositioning in a rising interest rate environment, increased
    gains from asset-based foreign currency transactions due to a
    decline in the U.S. dollar year over year against several
    major currencies and increased gains on equity securities,
    partially offset by increased losses from the mark-to-market on
    derivatives and reduced gains on real estate and real estate
    joint ventures.

Underwriting  

Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or
    other insurance-related experience trends, as well as the
    reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business.
    Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period.
    Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were less favorable for the year
    ended December 31, 2007, as the combined ratio, excluding
    catastrophes, increased to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Underwriting results were favorable in
    the non-medical health   other, group life and
    retirement   savings businesses in the Institutional
    segment. Underwriting results were unfavorable in the life
    products in the Individual segment.

Other
    Expenses  

Other expenses increased by $890 million, or 8%, to
    $11,673 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $10,783 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The following table provides the change from the prior year in
    other expenses by segment:

The Individual segment contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to higher DAC
    amortization, higher expenses associated with business growth,
    information technology and other general expenses, the impact of
    revisions to certain liabilities, including pension and
    postretirement liabilities and policyholder liabilities in the
    prior year, and a write-off of a receivable in the current year.

The International segment contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to the business growth
    commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above. It
    was driven by the following factors:

Argentina s other expenses increased primarily due to a
    liability for servicing obligations that was established as a
    result of pension reform, an increase in commissions on
    bancassurance business, an increase in retention incentives
    related to pension reform, and the impact of management s
    update of DAC assumptions as a result of pension reform and
    growth, partially offset by a lower increase in liabilities due
    to inflation and exchange rate indexing.

South Korea s other expenses increased primarily due to the
    favorable impact in DAC amortization associated with the
    implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system in the
    prior year, additional expenses associated with growth and
    infrastructure initiatives, as well as business growth and
    higher bank insurance fees, partially offset by a decrease in
    DAC amortization.

76

Table of Contents   

Mexico s other expenses increased due to higher expenses
    related to business growth and the favorable impact in the prior
    year of liabilities that were reduced, offset by a decrease in
    DAC amortization resulting from management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both
    the current and prior years and a decrease in liabilities based
    on a review of outstanding remittances.

Other expenses increased in India primarily due to headcount
    increases and growth initiatives, partially offset by the impact
    of management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits.

Other expenses increased in Australia primarily due to business
    growth and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Other expenses increased in Chile primarily due to compensation
    costs, infrastructure and marketing programs, and growth
    partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization related to
    inflation indexing.

Other expenses increased in Hong Kong due to the acquisition of
    the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Ireland s other expenses increased due to higher
     start-up 
    costs, as well as foreign currency transaction losses.

Brazil s other expenses increased due to changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates partially offset by an increase in
    litigation liabilities in the prior year.

The United Kingdom s other expenses increased due to
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates and higher spending
    on business initiatives partially offset by lower DAC
    amortization resulting from calculation refinements.

These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a
    decrease in Taiwan s other expenses primarily due to a
    one-time increase in DAC amortization in the prior year due to a
    loss recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates
    related to product guarantees coupled with high persistency
    rates on certain blocks of business, an increase in DAC
    amortization in the prior year associated with the
    implementation of a new valuation system, as well as one-time
    expenses in the prior year related to the termination of the
    agency force, and expense reductions recognized in the current
    year due to the elimination of the agency force.

Other expenses decreased in the home office primarily due to the
    elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged
    to the International segment, offset by higher spending on
    growth and infrastructure initiatives.

The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year
    increase primarily due to an increase in non-deferrable
    volume-related and corporate support expenses, higher DAC
    amortization associated with the ongoing implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in the current year, a charge related to the reimbursement of
    dental claims in the current year, the establishment of a
    contingent legal liability in the current year and the impact of
    certain revisions in both years. These increases were partially
    offset by a benefit related to a reduction of an allowance for
    doubtful accounts in the current year, the impact of a charge of
    non-deferrable LTC commissions expense, a charge associated with
    costs related to the sale of certain small market record keeping
    businesses and a regulatory settlement, all in the prior year.

Corporate   Other contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to higher interest
    expense, higher interest on tax contingences and an increase in
    interest credited to bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank,
    National Association, a national bank ( MetLife Bank 
    or  MetLife Bank, N.A. ), partially offset by lower
    corporate support expenses, lower costs from reductions of
    MetLife Foundation contributions, integration costs incurred in
    the prior year and lower legal costs.

These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a
    decrease in the Auto   Home segment primarily related
    to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially
    offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories.

These increases in other expenses were partially offset by a
    decrease in the Reinsurance segment primarily due to a decrease
    in expenses associated with DAC, partially offset by an increase
    in interest expense associated with note offerings in both
    years, an increase in minority interest expense, as well as an
    increase in compensation and overhead-related expenses
    associated with RGA s international expansion and general
    growth in the operations.

77

Table of Contents   

Net
    Income   

Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 was
    $1,759 million, or 29% of income from continuing operations
    before provision for income tax, compared with
    $1,097 million, or 26% of such income, for the comparable
    2006 period. The 2007 and 2006 effective tax rates differ from
    the corporate tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of
    non-taxable investment income and tax credits for investments in
    low income housing. In addition, the increase in the effective
    rate for FIN 48 liability additions is entirely offset by
    an increase in non-taxable investment income. The 2007 period
    includes a benefit for decrease in international deferred tax
    valuation allowances and the 2006 period included a prior year
    benefit for international taxes. Lastly, the 2006 period
    included benefit for a  provision-to-filed return 
    adjustment regarding non-taxable investment income.

Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax,
    decreased by $3,185 million, or 99%, to $37 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $3,222 million for the comparable 2006 period. The decrease
    in income from discontinued operations was primarily due a gain
    of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter
    Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New
    York, that was recognized during the year ended
    December 31, 2006. In addition, there was lower net
    investment income and net investment gains (losses) of
    $144 million, net of income tax, from discontinued
    operations related to real estate properties sold or
    held-for-sale during the year ended December 31, 2007 as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Also
    contributing to the decrease was lower income from discontinued
    operations of $23 million, net of income tax, related to
    the sale of MetLife Australia s annuities and pension
    businesses to a third party in the third quarter of 2007 and
    lower income from discontinued operations of $18 million,
    net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM resulting from a
    reduction in additional proceeds from the sale received during
    the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year
    December 31, 2006.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005    The Company   

Income
    from Continuing Operations   

Income from continuing operations was $3,071 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2006 and December 31,
    2005. Excluding the acquisition of Travelers, which contributed
    $298 million during the first six months of 2006 to the
    year over year increase, income from continuing operations
    decreased by $298 million. Income from continuing
    operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005
    included the impact of certain transactions or events, the
    timing, nature and amount of which are generally unpredictable.
    These transactions are described in each applicable
    segment s discussion. These items contributed a charge of
    $23 million, net of income tax, to the year ended
    December 31, 2006. These items contributed a benefit of
    $48 million, net of income tax, to the year ended
    December 31, 2005. Excluding the impact of these items and
    the acquisition of Travelers, income from continuing operations
    decreased by $227 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 compared to the prior 2005 period.

The following table provides the change in income from
    continuing operations by segment, excluding Travelers, and
    certain transactions as mentioned above:

The Institutional segment s income from continuing
    operations decreased primarily due to an increase in net
    investment losses, a decline in interest margins, an increase in
    operating expenses, which included a charge

78

Table of Contents   

associated with costs related to the sale of certain small
    market recordkeeping businesses, a charge associated with
    non-deferrable LTC commissions expense and a charge associated
    with costs related to a previously announced regulatory
    settlement, partially offset by the impact of integration costs
    in the prior year and favorable underwriting results.

The Individual segment s income from continuing operations
    decreased as a result of an increase in net investment losses, a
    decline in interest margins, higher expenses and annuity
    benefits, as well as increases in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances and policyholder dividends. These
    decreases were partially offset by increased fee income related
    to the growth in separate account products, favorable
    underwriting results in life products, lower DAC amortization
    and a decrease in the closed block-related policyholder dividend
    obligation.

Income from continuing operations in Corporate   Other
    decreased primarily due to higher investment losses, higher
    interest expense on debt, corporate support expenses, interest
    credited to bankholder deposits and legal-related costs,
    partially offset by an increase in tax benefits, an increase in
    net investment income, lower integration costs and an increase
    in other revenues.

The decrease in income from continuing operations in the
    International segment was primarily attributable to the
    following factors:

Taiwan had a decrease due to a loss recognition adjustment and a
    restructuring charge, partially offset by reserve refinements
    associated with the implementation of a new valuation system.

Income from continuing operations decreased in Canada primarily
    due to the realignment of economic capital in the prior year.

Income from continuing operations in Mexico decreased primarily
    due to an increase in amortization of DAC, higher operating
    expenses, the net impact of an adjustment to the liability for
    experience refunds on a block of business, a decrease in various
    one-time other revenue items in both periods, as well as an
    increase in income tax expense due to a tax benefit realized in
    the prior year. These decreases in Mexico were partially offset
    by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a
    decrease in unrealized investment gains on invested assets
    supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, a
    decrease in policyholder benefits associated with a large group
    policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a benefit in
    the current year from the release of liabilities for pending
    claims that were determined to be invalid following a review,
    and the unfavorable impact in the prior year of contingent
    liabilities.

In addition, a decrease in Brazil was primarily due to an
    increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to an
    increase in future policyholder benefit liabilities on specific
    blocks of business and an increase in litigation liabilities, as
    well as adverse claim experience in the current year.

The home office recorded higher infrastructure expenditures in
    support of segment growth, as well as a contingent tax
    liability. This was offset by a reduction in the amount charged
    for economic capital.

Results of the Company s investment in Japan decreased
    primarily due to variability in the hedging program.

In addition, expenses related to the Company s
     start-up 
    operations in Ireland reduced income from continuing operations.
    A valuation allowance was established against the deferred tax
    benefit resulting from the Ireland losses.

Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing
    operations were increases in Chile and the United Kingdom due to
    continued growth of the in-force business.

In addition, an increase occurred in Australia due to reserve
    strengthening on a block of business in the prior year.

South Korea s income from continuing operations increased
    due to growth in the in-force business and the implementation of
    a more refined reserve valuation system.

Argentina s income from continuing operations increased due
    to higher net investment income resulting from capital
    contributions, the release of liabilities for pending claims
    that were determined to be invalid following a review, the
    favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates and
    inflation rates on certain

79

Table of Contents   

contingent liabilities, the utilization of net operating losses
    for which a valuation allowance had been previously established,
    and an increase in the prior year period of a deferred income
    tax valuation allowance, as well as business growth. Changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates also contributed to the increase.

Partially offsetting the decreases in income from continuing
    operations was an increase in the Auto   Home segment
    primarily due to a loss in the third quarter of 2005 related to
    Hurricane Katrina, favorable development of prior year loss
    reserves, improvement in non-catastrophe loss experience and a
    reduction in loss adjustment expenses. These increases were
    partially offset by higher catastrophe losses, excluding
    Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, in the current year period, and
    decreases in net earned premiums, other revenues, and net
    investment income, as well as an increase in other expenses.

Income from continuing operations in the Reinsurance segment
    increased primarily due to added business in-force from
    facultative and automatic treaties and renewal premiums on
    existing blocks of business in the U.S. and international
    operations, an increase in net investment income due to growth
    in the invested asset base and an increase in other revenues.
    These items were partially offset by unfavorable mortality
    experience, an increase in liabilities associated with
    Reinsurance Group of America, Incorporated s
    ( RGA ) Argentine pension business in the prior period
    and an increase in other expenses, primarily related to expenses
    associated with DAC, interest expense, minority interest expense
    and equity compensation costs.

Revenues
    and Expenses   

Premiums,
    Fees and Other Revenues  

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $2,595 million, or 9%, to $32,554 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $29,959 million for the
    comparable 2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition
    of Travelers, which contributed $945 million during the
    first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase,
    premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $1,650 million.

The following table provides the change in premiums, fees and
    other revenues by segment, excluding Travelers:

The growth in the Reinsurance segment was primarily attributable
    to premiums from new facultative and automatic treaties and
    renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the
    U.S. and international operations.

The growth in the International segment was primarily due to the
    following factors:

An increase in Mexico s premiums, fees and other revenues
    due to growth in the business and higher fees, partially offset
    by an adjustment for experience refunds on a block of business
    and various one- time other revenue items in both years.

South Korea s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    due to business growth, as well as the favorable impact of
    foreign currency exchange rates.

Brazil s premiums, fees and other revenues increased due to
    business growth and higher bancassurance business, as well as an
    increase in amounts retained under reinsurance arrangements.

80

Table of Contents   

Chile s premiums, fees and other revenues increased
    primarily due to higher institutional premiums through its bank
    distribution channel, partially offset by lower annuity sales.

Business growth in the United Kingdom, Argentina, Australia and
    Taiwan, as well as the favorable impact of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates, also contributed to the increase in the
    International segment.

The growth in the Institutional segment was primarily due to
    growth in the dental, disability, AD D products, as well as
    growth in the LTC and IDI businesses, all within the non-medical
    health   other business. Additionally, growth in the
    group life business was attributable to the impact of sales and
    favorable persistency largely in the term life business. These
    increases in the non-medical health   other and group
    life businesses were partially offset by a decrease in the
    retirement   savings business. The decline in
    retirement   savings was primarily due to a decline in
    premiums from structured settlements predominantly due to lower
    sales, partially offset by an increase in master terminal
    funding premiums ( MTF ).

The growth in the Individual segment was primarily due to higher
    fee income from universal life and investment-type products and
    an increase in premiums from other life products, partially
    offset by a decrease in immediate annuity premiums and a decline
    in premiums associated with the Company s closed block
    business as this business continues to run-off.

Net
    Investment Income  

Net investment income increased by $2,326 million, or 16%,
    to $17,082 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006 from $14,756 million for the comparable 2005 period.
    Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which
    contributed $1,425 million during the first six months of
    2006 to the year over year increase, net investment income
    increased by $901 million of which management attributes
    $648 million to growth in the average asset base and
    $253 million to an increase in yields. This increase was
    primarily due to an overall increase in the asset base, an
    increase in fixed maturity security yields, improved results on
    real estate and real estate joint ventures, mortgage loans, and
    other limited partnership interests, as well as higher
    short-term interest rates on cash equivalents and short-term
    investments. These increases were partially offset by a decline
    in investment income from securities lending results, and bond
    and commercial mortgage prepayment fees.

Interest
    Margin  

Interest margin, which represents the difference between
    interest earned and interest credited to policyholder account
    balances, decreased in the Institutional and Individual segments
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the
    prior year. Interest earned approximates net investment income
    on investable assets attributed to the segment with minor
    adjustments related to the consolidation of certain separate
    accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements. Interest
    credited is the amount attributed to insurance products,
    recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the amount
    credited to policyholder account balances for investment-type
    products, recorded in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. Interest credited on insurance products reflects the
    current period impact of the interest rate assumptions
    established at issuance or acquisition. Interest credited to
    policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms,
    including some minimum guarantees. This tends to move gradually
    over time to reflect market interest rate movements and may
    reflect actions by management to respond to competitive
    pressures and, therefore, generally does not introduce
    volatility in expense.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)  

Net investment losses increased by $1,296 million to a loss
    of $1,382 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from a loss of $86 million for the comparable 2005 period.
    Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which
    contributed a loss of $294 million during the first six
    months of 2006 to the year over year increase, net investment
    losses increased by $1,002 million. The increase in net
    investment losses was due to a combination of losses from the
    mark-to-market on derivatives and foreign currency transaction
    losses during 2006, largely driven by increases in
    U.S. interest rates and the weakening of the dollar against
    the major currencies the Company hedges, notably the euro and
    pound sterling.

81

Table of Contents   

Underwriting  

Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity or other insurance costs, less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity or
    other insurance-related experience trends and the reinsurance
    activity related to certain blocks of business and, as a result,
    can fluctuate from period to period. Underwriting results were
    favorable within the life products in the Individual segment, as
    well as in the Reinsurance segment, and in the group life and
    non-medical health   other products in the
    Institutional segment. Retirement   saving s
    underwriting results were mixed across several products in the
    Institutional segment. Underwriting results, excluding
    catastrophes, in the Auto   Home segment were
    favorable for the year ended December 31, 2006, as the
    combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from
    86.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Underwriting
    results in the International segment increased commensurate with
    the growth in the business for most countries with the exception
    of Brazil, which experienced unfavorable claim experience, and
    Argentina, which experienced improved claim experience.

Other
    Expenses  

Other expenses increased by $1,519 million, or 16%, to
    $10,783 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $9,264 million for the comparable 2005 period.
    Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Travelers, which
    contributed $605 million during the first six months of
    2006 to the year over year increase, other expenses increased by
    $914 million. The year ended December 31, 2006
    includes a $35 million contribution to the MetLife
    Foundation. The year ended December 31, 2005 included a
    $28 million benefit associated with the reduction of a
    previously established real estate transfer tax liability
    related to MLIC s demutualization in 2000. Excluding these
    items and the acquisition of Travelers, other expenses increased
    by $851 million from the comparable 2005 period.

The following table provides the change in other expenses by
    segment, excluding Travelers, and certain transactions as
    mentioned above:

The International segment contributed to the year over year
    increase in other expenses primarily due to business growth
    commensurate with the increase in revenues discussed above and
    changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This was driven by
    the following factors:

Taiwan s other expenses increased due to an increase in
    amortization of DAC, due to a loss recognition adjustment,
    refinements associated with the implementation of a new
    valuation system and a restructuring charge.

Mexico s other expenses increased due to an increase in
    commissions commensurate with the revenue growth, higher DAC
    amortization, higher expenses related to growth initiatives and
    additional expenses associated with the Mexican pension
    business, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of
    contingent liabilities that were established in the prior year
    related to potential employment matters and which were
    eliminated in the current year.

South Korea s other expenses increased due to an increase
    in DAC amortization and general expenses, partially offset by a
    decrease in DAC amortization associated with the implementation
    of a more refined reserve valuation system.

82

Table of Contents   

Brazil s other expenses increased due to an increase in
    litigation liabilities.

Other expenses associated with the home office increased due to
    an increase in expenditures for information technology projects,
    growth initiative projects and integration costs, as well as an
    increase in compensation expense.

In addition, expenses were incurred related to the
     start-up  of
    operations in Ireland.

Corporate   Other contributed to the year over year
    variance in other expenses primarily due to higher interest
    expense, corporate support expenses, interest credited to
    bankholder deposits at MetLife Bank and legal-related costs,
    partially offset by lower integration costs.

The Reinsurance segment also contributed to the increase in
    other expenses primarily due to an increase in expenses
    associated with DAC, interest expense and minority interest, as
    well as an increase in compensation, including equity
    compensation expense and overhead-related expenses.

The Institutional segment contributed to the year over year
    increase primarily due to an increase in non-deferrable
    volume-related expenses, a charge associated with costs related
    to the sale of certain small market recordkeeping businesses, a
    charge associated with non-deferrable LTC commissions expense
    and a charge associated with costs related to a previously
    announced regulatory settlement, all within the current year,
    partially offset by the reduction in Travelers-related
    integration costs, principally incentive accruals and an
    adjustment of DAC for certain LTC products.

The Auto   Home segment contributed to the year over
    year increase primarily due to expenditures related to
    information technology, advertising and compensation costs.

Partially offsetting the increases in other expenses was a
    decrease in the Individual segment. This decrease was primarily
    due to lower DAC amortization, partially offset by higher
    general spending in the current year, despite higher corporate
    incentives. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain
    expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and
    postretirement liabilities, in both periods, increased other
    expenses in the current year period.

Net
    Income   

Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
    $1,097 million, or 26% of income from continuing operations
    before provision for income tax, compared with
    $1,222 million, or 28%, of such income, for the comparable
    2005 period. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of
    Travelers, which contributed $118 million during the first
    six months of 2006, income tax expense was $979 million, or
    26%, of income from continuing operations before provision for
    income tax, compared with $1,222 million, or 28%, of such
    income, for the comparable 2005 period. The 2006 and 2005
    effective tax rates differ from the corporate tax rate of 35%
    primarily due to the impact of non-taxable investment income and
    tax credits for investments in low income housing. The 2006
    effective tax rate also includes an adjustment of a benefit of
    $33 million consisting primarily of a revision in the
    estimate of income tax for 2005, and the 2005 effective tax rate
    also includes a tax benefit of $27 million related to the
    repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue
    Code Section 965 for which a U.S. deferred tax
    provision had previously been recorded and an adjustment of a
    benefit of $31 million consisting primarily of a revision
    in the estimate of income tax for 2004.

Income from discontinued operations consisted of net investment
    income and net investment gains related to real estate
    properties that the Company had classified as available-for-sale
    or had sold and, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and
    2005, the operations and gain upon disposal from the sale of
    SSRM on January 31, 2005 and for the year ended
    December 31, 2005, the operations of MetLife Indonesia
    which was sold on September 29, 2005. Income from
    discontinued operations, net of income tax, increased by
    $1,579 million, or 96%, to $3,222 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $1,643 million for the
    comparable 2005 period. This increase is primarily due to a gain
    of $3 billion, net of income tax, on the sale of the Peter
    Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties in Manhattan, New
    York, as well as a gain of $32 million, net of income tax,
    related to the sale of SSRM during the year ended
    December 31, 2006. This increase was partially offset by
    gains during the year ended December 31, 2005 including
    $1,193 million, net of income tax, on the sales of the One
    Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue

83

Table of Contents   

properties in Manhattan, New York, as well as gains on the sales
    of SSRM and MetLife Indonesia of $177 million and
    $10 million, respectively, both net of income tax. In
    addition, there was lower net investment income and net
    investment gains from discontinued operations related to real
    estate properties sold or held-for-sale during the year ended
    December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2005.

Dividends on the Holding Company s Preferred Shares issued
    in connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers
    increased by $71 million, to $134 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006, from $63 million for the
    comparable 2005 period, as the preferred stock was issued in
    June 2005.

Institutional   

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Institutional segment for the years indicated:

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   Institutional   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased $314 million,
    or 28%, to $1,439 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 from $1,125 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

Included in this increase are higher earnings of
    $33 million, net of income tax, from lower net investment
    losses. In addition, higher earnings of $11 million, net of
    income tax, resulted from an increase in policyholder benefits
    and claims related to net investment gains (losses). Excluding
    the impact of net investment gains (losses), income from
    continuing operations increased by $270 million, net of
    income tax, compared to the prior year.

Interest margins increased $229 million, net of income tax,
    compared to the prior year. Management attributes this increase
    to a $146 million increase in retirement  
    savings, a $46 million increase in group life and a
    $37 million increase in non-medical health and other,
    respectively, all net of income tax. Interest margin is the

84

Table of Contents   

difference between interest earned and interest credited to
    policyholder account balances. Interest earned approximates net
    investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment
    with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain
    separate accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements.
    Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance
    products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the
    amount credited to policyholder account balances for
    investment-type products, recorded in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance
    products reflects the current year impact of the interest rate
    assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances is subject to
    contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends
    to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate
    movements, and may reflect actions by management to respond to
    competitive pressures and, therefore, generally does not
    introduce volatility in expense.

An increase in underwriting results of $89 million, net of
    income tax, compared to the prior year, contributed to the
    increase in income from continuing operations. Management
    attributes this increase primarily to the non-medical
    health   other, group life and retirement  
    savings businesses with increases of $65 million,
    $16 million and $8 million, all net of income tax,
    respectively.

Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity, or other insurance costs less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or
    other insurance-related experience trends, as well as the
    reinsurance activity related to certain blocks of business.
    Consequently, results can fluctuate from period to period.

Partially offsetting this increase in income from continuing
    operations were higher expenses related to an increase in
    non-deferrable volume-related expenses and corporate support
    expenses of $72 million, net of income tax, as well as an
    increase in DAC amortization of $44 million, net of income
    tax, primarily due to a $40 million, net of income tax,
    charge due to the ongoing impact on DAC and VOBA amortization
    resulting from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in the current year. This increase in expense was partially
    offset by the impact of certain revisions in both years for a
    net decrease of $34 million, net of income tax. The
    remaining increase in operating expenses was more than offset by
    the remaining increase in premiums, fees, and other revenues.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $1,508 million, or 7%, to $22,100 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $20,592 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Net investment income increased by $914 million. Management
    attributes $742 million of this increase to growth in the
    average asset base primarily within mortgage loans on real
    estate, fixed maturity securities, real estate joint ventures,
    other limited partnership interests, and equity securities,
    driven by continued business growth, particularly growth in the
    funding agreements and global GIC businesses. Additionally,
    management attributes $172 million of this increase in net
    investment income to an increase in yields, primarily due to
    higher returns on fixed maturity securities, improved securities
    lending results, other limited partnership interests, and equity
    securities, partially offset by a decline in yields on real
    estate and real estate joint ventures and mortgage loans.

The increase of $594 million in premiums, fees and other
    revenues was largely due to increases in the non-medical
    health   other business of $483 million,
    primarily due to growth in the dental, disability, AD D and
    IDI businesses of $478 million. Partially offsetting these
    increases in the non-medical health   other business
    is a decline in the LTC business of $7 million, which
    includes a $66 million decrease resulting from a shift to
    deposit liability-type contracts in the current year. Excluding
    this shift, LTC premiums would have increased due to growth in
    the business. Group life increased $345 million, which
    management primarily attributes to a $262 million increase
    in term life, primarily due to growth in the business from new
    sales and an increase in reinsurance assumed, partially offset
    by the impact of an increase in experience rated refunds. In
    addition, corporate-owned life insurance and life insurance sold
    to postretirement benefit plans increased by $65 million
    and $30 million, respectively. The increase in
    corporate-owned life insurance is largely attributable to fees
    earned on a large sale in the current year. These increases in
    group life s premiums, fees and other revenues were
    partially offset by a decrease of $5 million in the
    universal life insurance products. Partially offsetting the
    increase in premiums, fees and other revenues was a decline in
    retirement   savings  premiums, fees and other
    revenues of $234 million, primarily from declines of

85

Table of Contents   

$158 million and $79 million in structured settlement
    and pension closeout premiums, respectively, partially offset by
    an increase of $3 million across several products. The
    declines in the structured settlement and pension closeout
    businesses are predominantly due to the impact of lower sales in
    the current year. Premiums, fees and other revenues from
    retirement   savings products are significantly
    influenced by large transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate
    from period to period.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $1,064 million, or 6%, to
    $19,338 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $18,274 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The increase in expenses was attributable to higher interest
    credited to policyholder account balances of $501 million,
    higher policyholder benefits and claims of $439 million and
    an increase in operating expenses of $124 million.

Management attributes the increase of $501 million in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances to a
    $352 million increase solely from growth in the average
    policyholder account balances, primarily resulting from growth
    in global GICs and funding agreements within the
    retirement   savings business and a $149 million
    increase from a rise in average crediting rates, largely due to
    the global GIC program, coupled with a rise in short-term
    interest rates in the current year.

The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of
    $439 million included a $16 million decrease related
    to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the decrease related
    to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits and
    claims increased by $455 million. Non-medical
    health   other s policyholder benefits and claims
    increased by $385 million. This increase was largely due to
    a $371 million increase in the dental, disability, IDI and
    AD D businesses, resulting from the aforementioned growth
    in business. This increase was partially offset by favorable
    claim experience in the dental business and favorable morbidity
    experience in the disability, IDI and AD D businesses. This
    increase included charges related to certain refinements of
    $14 million in the current year in LTD and the impact of a
    $22 million disability liability reduction in the prior
    year, which contributed to the increase. An increase in LTC of
    $14 million is largely attributable to business growth and
    an increase in interest credited, partially offset by the
    aforementioned $66 million shift to deposit liability-type
    contracts and the impact of more favorable claim experience in
    the current year. Group life s policyholder benefits and
    claims increased by $264 million due mostly to an increase
    in the term life business of $245 million, which included
    the impact of less favorable mortality in the term life product,
    partially offset by the net impact of favorable liability
    refinements of $12 million in the current year. An increase
    of $29 million in life insurance sold to postretirement
    plans and $25 million for other group life products,
    including corporate-owned life insurance, also contributed to
    the increase in policyholder benefits and claims for group life.
    The increases in term life and life insurance sold to
    postretirement benefit plans are commensurate with the
    aforementioned premiums increases. These increases were
    partially offset by a decline in universal group life products
    of $36 million, primarily due to favorable claim
    experience. Retirement   savings  policyholder
    benefits decreased by $194 million, which was largely due
    to decreases in the pension closeout and structured settlement
    businesses of $98 million and $97 million,
    respectively. The decrease in pension closeouts was primarily
    due to the aforementioned decrease in premiums and a decrease in
    interest credited. The decline in structured settlements was
    primarily a result of the aforementioned decline in premiums,
    partially offset by an increase in interest credited and less
    favorable mortality experience in the current year. In addition,
    this decrease included the net impact of favorable liability
    refinements in the current year, which contributed a decrease of
    $20 million, and the net impact of favorable liability
    refinements in the prior year of $57 million, largely
    related to business associated with the acquisition of
    Travelers, principally in the structured settlement, pension
    closeout and general account businesses.

Higher other expenses of $124 million included an increase
    in non-deferrable volume-related expenses and corporate support
    expenses of $108 million. Non-deferrable volume-related
    expenses included those expenses associated with direct
    departmental spending, information technology, commissions and
    premium taxes. Corporate support expenses included advertising,
    corporate overhead and consulting fees. The increase in other
    expenses was also attributable to higher DAC amortization of
    $68 million, primarily due to a $61 million charge as
    a result of the ongoing impact of DAC and VOBA amortization
    resulting from the implementation of
     SOP 05-1 
    in the current year.

86

Table of Contents   

In addition, a charge of $14 million related to the
    reimbursement of certain dental claims and a $15 million
    charge related to the establishment of a contingent legal
    liability in the current year contributed to the increase in
    other expenses. The impact of certain revisions in both years
    also contributed to a net increase in other expenses of
    $2 million. These increases were partially offset by a
    $13 million benefit related to a reduction of an allowance
    for doubtful accounts in the current year. Additionally, the
    prior year included the impact of a $22 million charge for
    non-deferrable LTC commissions expense, a charge of
    $24 million associated with costs related to the sale of
    certain small market recordkeeping businesses and
    $24 million related to a regulatory settlement, which
    reduced other expenses in the current year.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   Institutional   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations decreased $263 million,
    or 19%, to $1,125 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 from $1,388 million for the
    comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed
    $56 million during the first six months of 2006 to income
    from continuing operations, which included a decline of
    $104 million, net of income tax, of net investment gains
    (losses). Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from
    continuing operations decreased $319 million, or 23%, from
    the comparable 2005 period.

Included in this decrease was a decline of $300 million,
    net of income tax, in net investment gains (losses), as well as
    a decline of $18 million, net of income tax, resulting from
    an increase in policyholder benefits and claims related to net
    investment gains (losses). Excluding the impact of Travelers and
    the decline in net investment gains (losses), income from
    continuing operations was flat when compared to the prior year
    period.

A decrease in interest margins of $84 million, net of
    income tax, compared to the prior year period contributed to the
    decrease in income from continuing operations. Management
    attributes this decrease primarily to the group life and
    retirement   savings businesses of $60 million
    and $51 million, both net of income tax, respectively.
    Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase of
    $27 million, net of income tax, in the non-medical
    health   other business. Interest margin is the
    difference between interest earned and interest credited to
    policyholder account balances. Interest earned approximates net
    investment income on investable assets attributed to the segment
    with minor adjustments related to the consolidation of certain
    separate accounts and other minor non-policyholder elements.
    Interest credited is the amount attributed to insurance
    products, recorded in policyholder benefits and claims, and the
    amount credited to policyholder account balances for
    investment-type products, recorded in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances. Interest credited on insurance
    products reflects the current period impact of the interest rate
    assumptions established at issuance or acquisition. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances is subject to
    contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees. This tends
    to move gradually over time to reflect market interest rate
    movements, may reflect actions by management to respond to
    competitive pressures and therefore, generally does not
    introduce volatility in expense.

The year over year variance in income from continuing operations
    included charges recorded in other expenses of $17 million,
    net of income tax, associated with costs related to the sale of
    certain small market recordkeeping businesses, $16 million,
    net of income tax, due to costs associated with a previously
    announced regulatory settlement and $15 million, net of
    income tax, associated with non-deferrable LTC commission
    expense. Partially offsetting these increases in operating
    expenses were benefits due to prior year charges of
    $28 million, net of income tax, as a result of the impact
    of Travelers  integration costs and $14 million, net
    of income tax, related to an adjustment of DAC for certain LTC
    products.

Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing
    operations was an increase in underwriting results of
    $97 million, net of income tax, compared to the prior year
    period. This increase was primarily due to favorable results of
    $48 million, $38 million and $11 million, all net
    of income tax, in the group life, the non-medical
    health   other businesses and the
    retirement   savings businesses, respectively.

The results in group life were primarily due to favorable
    mortality results, predominantly in the term life business,
    which included a benefit from reserve refinements in the current
    year.

Non-medical health   other s favorable
    underwriting results were primarily due to improvements in the
    IDI and dental businesses. The IDI results included certain
    reserve refinements in the prior year. Partially offsetting

87

Table of Contents   

these increases was a decrease in the AD D and disability
    businesses. Disability s results include the benefit of
    prior and current year reserve refinements.

Retirement   savings  underwriting results were
    favorable with mixed underwriting across several products.
    Underwriting results are generally the difference between the
    portion of premium and fee income intended to cover mortality,
    morbidity, or other insurance costs less claims incurred, and
    the change in insurance-related liabilities. Underwriting
    results are significantly influenced by mortality, morbidity, or
    other insurance-related experience trends and the reinsurance
    activity related to certain blocks of business.

The remaining increase in operating expenses more than offset
    the remaining increase in premiums, fees and other revenues.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $1,838 million, or 10%, to
    $20,592 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $18,754 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $797 million during
    the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase.
    Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, such revenues
    increased by $1,041 million, or 6%, from the comparable
    2005 period. This increase was comprised of higher net
    investment income of $583 million and growth in premiums,
    fees and other revenues of $458 million.

Net investment income increased by $583 million of which
    management attributes $463 million to growth in the average
    asset base driven by business growth throughout 2005 and 2006,
    particularly in the GIC and structured settlement businesses and
    $120 million to an increase in yields. The increase in
    yields was primarily attributable to higher yields on fixed
    maturity securities, an increase in short-term rates and higher
    returns on joint ventures. These increases were partially offset
    by a decline in securities lending results and commercial
    mortgage prepayment fees.

The increase of $458 million in premiums, fees and other
    revenues was largely due to increases in the non-medical
    health   other business of $408 million,
    primarily due to growth in the dental, disability and AD D
    products of $255 million. In addition, continued growth in
    the LTC and IDI businesses contributed $117 million and
    $25 million, respectively. Group life increased by
    $296 million, which management primarily attributes to the
    impact of sales and favorable persistency largely in term life
    business, which includes a significant increase in premiums from
    two large customers. Partially offsetting these increases was a
    decline in retirement   savings  premiums, fees
    and other revenues of $246 million, resulting primarily
    from a decline of $320 million in structured settlements,
    predominantly due to the impact of lower sales. This decline was
    partially offset by a $83 million increase in MTF premiums.
    Premiums, fees and other revenues from retirement  
    savings products are significantly influenced by large
    transactions and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to
    period.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $1,616 million, or 10%, to
    $18,274 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $16,658 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $551 million during
    the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase.
    Excluding the impact of the Travelers acquisition, total
    expenses increased $1,065 million, or 6%, from the
    comparable 2005 period.

The increase in expenses was attributable to higher interest
    credited to policyholder account balances of $621 million,
    policyholder benefits and claims of $366 million and
    operating expenses of $79 million.

Management attributes the increase of $621 million in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances to
    $433 million from an increase in average crediting rates,
    which was largely due to the impact of higher short-term rates
    in the current year period and $188 million solely from
    growth in the average policyholder account balances, primarily
    resulting from GICs within the retirement   savings
    business.

The increases in policyholder benefits and claims of
    $366 million included a $27 million increase related
    to net investment gains (losses). Excluding the increase related
    to net investment gains (losses), policyholder benefits and
    claims increased by $339 million. Non-medical
    health   other s policyholder benefits and claims
    increased by $306 million, predominantly due to the
    aforementioned growth in business, as well as unfavorable
    morbidity in

88

Table of Contents   

disability and unfavorable claim experience in AD D.
    Partially offsetting these increases was favorable claim and
    morbidity experience in IDI, as well as the impact of an
    establishment of a $25 million liability for future losses
    in the prior year. In addition, favorable claim experience in
    the current year reduced dental policyholder benefits and
    claims. Additionally, disability business included a
    $22 million benefit which resulted from reserve refinements
    in the current year. The year over year variance in disability
    also includes the impact of an $18 million loss related to
    Hurricane Katrina in the prior year. Group life s
    policyholder benefits and claims increased by $238 million,
    largely due to the aforementioned growth in the business,
    partially offset by favorable underwriting results, particularly
    in the term life business. Term life included a benefit of
    $16 million due to reserve refinements in the current year.
    Partially offsetting the increase was a retirement  
    savings  policyholder benefits and claims decrease of
    $205 million, predominantly due to the aforementioned
    decrease in revenues, partially offset by higher FAS 60
    interest credits recorded in policyholder benefits and claims
    due to growth in structured settlements and MTF.

The increase in other expenses of $79 million was primarily
    due to an increase in the current year of $60 million in
    non-deferrable volume related expenses and corporate support
    expenses. Non-deferrable volume related expenses include those
    expenses associated with information technology, direct
    departmental spending and commission expenses. Corporate support
    expenses include advertising, corporate overhead and consulting
    fees. Also contributing to the increase was $26 million
    associated with costs related to the sale of certain small
    market recordkeeping businesses, $23 million of
    non-deferrable LTC commission expense, $24 million related
    to costs associated with a previously announced regulatory
    settlement and $11 million related to stock-based
    compensation. Partially offsetting these increases were benefits
    due to prior year charges of $43 million in
    Travelers-related integration costs, principally incentive
    accruals and $22 million related to an adjustment of DAC
    for certain LTC products.

Individual  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Individual segment for the years indicated:

89

Table of Contents   

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   Individual   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $110 million, or 9%, to $1,356 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $1,246 million for the
    comparable 2006 period. Included in this increase was a decrease
    in net investment losses of $324 million, net of income
    tax. Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses),
    income from continuing operations decreased by $214 million
    from the comparable 2006 period.

The decrease in income from continuing operations for the year
    was driven by the following items:

Higher DAC amortization of $204 million, net of income tax,
    primarily resulting from business growth, lower net investment
    losses in the current year and revisions to management s
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    margins.

Unfavorable underwriting results in life products of
    $134 million, net of income tax. Underwriting results are
    generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee
    income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance
    costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance-related
    liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced
    by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance-related experience
    trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain
    blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from
    period to period.

Higher expenses of $129 million, net of income tax. Higher
    general expenses, the impact of revisions to certain liabilities
    in both periods, and the write-off of a receivable from one of
    the Company s joint venture partners contributed to the
    increase in other expenses.

An increase in the closed block-related policyholder dividend
    obligation of $75 million, net of income tax, which was
    driven by net investment gains.

Higher annuity benefits of $24 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to higher amortization of deferred costs,
    partially offset by lower costs of guaranteed annuity benefit
    riders and related hedging.

An increase in policyholder dividends of $14 million, net
    of income tax, due to growth in the business.

An increase in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances of $13 million, net of income tax, due primarily
    to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on
    acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business.

These aforementioned decreases in income from continuing
    operations were partially offset by the following items:

Higher fee income from separate account products of
    $271 million, net of income tax, primarily related to fees
    being earned on a higher average account balance resulting from
    a combination of growth in the business and overall market
    performance.

Higher net investment income on blocks of business not driven by
    interest margins of $85 million, net of income tax, due to
    an increase in yields and growth in the average asset base.

An increase in interest margins of $18 million, net of
    income tax. Interest margins relate primarily to the general
    account portion of investment-type products. Management
    attributed a $1 million decrease to the deferred annuity
    business offset by a $19 million increase to other
    investment-type products, both net of income tax. Interest
    margin is the difference between interest earned and interest
    credited to policyholder account balances related to the general
    account on these businesses. Interest earned approximates net
    investment income on invested assets attributed to these
    businesses with net adjustments for other non-policyholder
    elements. Interest credited approximates the amount recorded in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances is subject to
    contractual terms, including some minimum guarantees, and may
    reflect actions by management to respond to competitive
    pressures. Interest credited to policyholder account balances
    tends to move gradually over time to reflect market interest
    rate movements, subject to any minimum guarantees and,
    therefore, generally does not introduce volatility in expense.

90

Table of Contents   

The change in effective tax rates between periods accounts for
    the remainder of the decrease in income from continuing
    operations.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $504 million, or 3%, to $15,660 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $15,156 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Premiums decreased by $20 million due to a decrease in
    immediate annuity premiums of $27 million, and an
    $89 million decline in premiums associated with the
    Company s closed block of business, in line with
    expectations. These decreases were partially offset by growth in
    premiums from other life products of $96 million, primarily
    driven by increased sales of term life business.

Universal life and investment-type product policy fees combined
    with other revenues increased by $384 million due to a
    combination of growth in the business and improved overall
    market performance, as well as revisions to management s
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    margins. Policy fees from variable life and annuity and
    investment-type products are typically calculated as a
    percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The
    value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity
    performance.

Net investment income increased by $140 million. Net
    investment income from the general account portion of
    investment-type products and other businesses increased by
    $45 million and $95 million, respectively. Management
    attributes $5 million of this increase to an increase in
    yields, primarily due to higher returns on other limited
    partnership interests. Additionally, management attributes
    $135 million to growth in the average asset base across
    various investment types.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $840 million, or 7%, to
    $13,500 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $12,660 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $312 million
    primarily due to an increase in the closed
     block-related 
    policyholder dividend obligation of $115 million which was
    primarily driven by net investment gains. Unfavorable mortality
    in the life products, as well as revisions to policyholder
    benefits in both periods, contributed $180 million to this
    increase. Included in this increase was $72 million of
    unfavorable mortality in the closed block and a prior year net
    increase of $15 million in the excess mortality liability
    on specific blocks of life insurance policies. Higher
    amortization of sales inducements resulting from business growth
    and revisions to management s assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits and margins, partially offset by lower
    costs of guaranteed annuity benefit riders and related hedging
    increased annuity benefits by $37 million. Partially
    offsetting these increases, policyholder benefits and claims
    decreased by $20 million commensurate with the decrease in
    premiums discussed above.

Interest credited to policyholder account balances decreased by
    $5 million. Interest credited on the general account
    portion of investment-type products and other businesses
    decreased by $15 million and $10 million,
    respectively. Of the $15 million decrease on the general
    account portion of investment-type products, management
    attributed $67 million to higher crediting rates, more than
    offset by $82 million due to lower average policyholder
    account balances. Partially offsetting these decreases was lower
    amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired annuity
    and universal life blocks of business of $20 million
    primarily driven by lower lapses in the current year.

Policyholder dividends increased by $21 million due to
    growth in the business.

Higher other expenses of $512 million include higher DAC
    amortization of $314 million resulting from business
    growth, lower net investment losses and revisions to
    management s assumptions used to determine estimated gross
    profits and margins. The remaining increase in other expenses of
    $198 million was comprised of $167 million associated
    with business growth, information technology and other general
    expenses, $7 million due to the impact of revisions to
    certain liabilities including pension and postretirement
    liabilities and policyholder

91

Table of Contents   

liabilities in the prior year, and $24 million associated
    with the write-off of a receivable from one of the
    Company s joint venture partners in the current year.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   Individual   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by $44 million,
    or 4%, to $1,246 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 from $1,202 million for the
    comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers contributed
    $112 million during the first six months of 2006 to income
    from continuing operations, which included $88 million, net
    of income tax, of net investment losses. Included in the
    Travelers results was a $21 million increase to the excess
    mortality liability on specific blocks of life insurance
    policies. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from
    continuing operations decreased by $68 million, or 6%, to
    $1,134 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $1,202 million for the comparable 2005 period.

Included in this decrease were net investment losses of
    $270 million, net of income tax. Excluding the impact of
    net investment gains (losses) and the acquisition of Travelers
    for the first six months of 2006, income from continuing
    operations increased by $202 million from the comparable
    2005 period.

The increase in income from continuing operations for the year
    was driven by the following items:

Higher fee income from separate account products of
    $151 million, net of income tax, primarily related to fees
    being earned on a higher average account balance resulting from
    a combination of growth in the business and overall market
    performance.

Lower DAC amortization of $113 million, net of income tax,
    resulting from investment losses and revisions to
    management s assumptions used to determine estimated gross
    profits and margins.

A decrease in the closed block-related policyholder dividend
    obligation of $68 million, net of income tax.

Favorable underwriting results in life products of
    $61 million, net of income tax. Underwriting results are
    generally the difference between the portion of premium and fee
    income intended to cover mortality, morbidity or other insurance
    costs less claims incurred and the change in insurance-related
    liabilities. Underwriting results are significantly influenced
    by mortality, morbidity, or other insurance-related experience
    trends, as well as the reinsurance activity related to certain
    blocks of business. Consequently, results can fluctuate from
    period to period.

Higher net investment income on blocks of business that were not
    driven by interest margins of $16 million, net of income
    tax.

These aforementioned increases in income from continuing
    operations were partially offset by the following items:

A decline in interest margins of $58 million, net of income
    tax. Interest margins relate primarily to the general account
    portion of investment-type products. Management attributed
    $40 million of this decrease to the deferred annuity
    business and the remaining $18 million to other
    investment-type products. Interest margin is the difference
    between interest earned and interest credited to policyholder
    account balances related to the general account on these
    businesses. Interest earned approximates net investment income
    on invested assets attributed to these businesses with net
    adjustments for other non-policyholder elements. Interest
    credited approximates the amount recorded in interest credited
    to policyholder account balances. Interest credited to
    policyholder account balances is subject to contractual terms,
    including some minimum guarantees, and may reflect actions by
    management to respond to competitive pressures. Interest
    credited to policyholder account balances tends to move
    gradually over time to reflect market interest rate movements,
    subject to any minimum guarantees, and therefore, generally does
    not introduce volatility in expense.

Higher expenses of $52 million, net of income tax. Higher
    general spending in the current period was partially offset by
    higher corporate incentives in the prior year.

Higher annuity benefits of $30 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to higher costs of the guaranteed annuity benefit
    riders and the related hedging, and revisions to future
    policyholder benefits.

92

Table of Contents   

An increase in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances of $26 million, net of income tax, due primarily
    to lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on
    acquired annuity and universal life blocks of business.

An increase in policyholder dividends of $18 million, net
    of income tax, due to growth in the business.

The change in effective tax rates between periods accounts for
    the remainder of the increase in income from continuing
    operations.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $1,184 million, or 8%, to $15,156 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $13,972 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $1,009 million during
    the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase.
    Excluding the impact of Travelers, such revenues increased by
    $175 million, or 1%, from the comparable 2005 period.

Premiums decreased by $38 million due to a decrease in
    immediate annuity premiums of $22 million, and a
    $103 million expected decline in premiums associated with
    the Company s closed block of business, partially offset by
    growth in premiums from other life products of $87 million.

Higher universal life and investment-type product policy fees
    combined with other revenues of $267 million resulted from
    a combination of growth in the business and improved overall
    market performance. Policy fees from variable life and annuity
    and investment-type products are typically calculated as a
    percentage of the average assets in policyholder accounts. The
    value of these assets can fluctuate depending on equity
    performance.

Net investment income decreased by $54 million. Net
    investment income from the general account portion of
    investment-type products decreased by $56 million which was
    partially offset by an increase of $2 million in other
    businesses. Management attributed a decrease of
    $146 million partially to lower yields in the current year
    primarily resulting from lower income from securities lending
    activities, mortgage and bond prepayment fee income, partially
    offset by higher corporate joint venture income. In addition,
    management attributed an increase of $92 million from
    growth in the average asset base primarily from equity
    securities and mortgage loans.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $534 million, or 4%, to
    $12,660 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $12,126 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $706 million during
    the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase.
    Included in the Travelers results was a $33 million
    increase to the excess mortality liability on specific blocks of
    life insurance policies. Excluding the impact of Travelers,
    total expenses decreased by $172 million, or 1%, from the
    comparable 2005 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $156 million
    primarily due to a reduction in the closed block-related
    policyholder dividend obligation of $105 million driven by
    higher net investment losses. A reduction of $49 million
    related to the excess mortality liability on a specific block of
    life insurance policies that lapsed or otherwise changed also
    contributed to the decrease. In addition, policyholder benefits
    and claims decreased by $38 million commensurate with the
    decrease in premiums discussed above. Unfavorable mortality in
    the closed block of $99 million was more than offset by
    favorable mortality in the life products of $109 million,
    contributing $10 million to the decrease in policyholder
    benefits and claims. Partially offsetting these decreases in
    policyholder benefits and claims was an increase in annuity
    benefits of $46 million primarily due to higher costs of
    the guaranteed annuity benefit riders and the related hedging,
    and revisions to future policyholder benefits.

Partially offsetting these decreases, interest credited to
    policyholder account balances increased by $51 million.
    Lower amortization of the excess interest reserves on acquired
    annuity and universal life blocks of business resulting from
    higher lapses in the prior period, as well as an update of
    assumptions in the current period contributed $40 million
    to the increase. In addition, interest credited on the general
    account portion of investment-type products increased
    $16 million, while other businesses decreased by
    $5 million. Of the $16 million increase on

93

Table of Contents   

the general account portion of investment-type products,
    management attributed $37 million to higher crediting
    rates, partially offset by $21 million due to lower average
    policyholder account balances.

Partially offsetting these decreases in total expenses was a
    $27 million increase in policyholder dividends associated
    with growth in the business.

Lower other expenses of $94 million include lower DAC
    amortization of $174 million resulting from changes in
    investment gains and losses of $154 million and
    $20 million related to management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins. The
    remaining increase in other expenses was $80 million. The
    current year included higher general spending of
    $94 million primarily due to information technology and
    travel expenses while the prior year had higher corporate
    incentives of $39 million related to the Travelers
    integration. In addition, the impact of revisions to certain
    expenses, premium tax, policyholder liabilities and pension and
    postretirement liabilities in both periods was a net increase to
    expenses of $25 million in the current period.

Auto  
    Home  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Auto   Home segment for the years indicated:

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   Auto  
    Home   

Net
    Income  

Net income increased by $20 million, or 5%, to
    $436 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $416 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The increase in net income was primarily attributable to an
    increase in premiums of $28 million, net of income tax. The
    increase in premiums was principally due to an increase of
    $38 million, net of income tax, related to increased
    exposures, an increase of $4 million, net of income tax,
    from various voluntary and involuntary programs and an increase
    of $4 million, net of income tax, resulting from the change
    in estimate on auto rate refunds due to a regulatory
    examination. Offsetting these increases was a $14 million,
    net of income tax, decrease related to a reduction in average
    earned premium per policy and an increase in catastrophe
    reinsurance costs of $4 million, net of income tax.

94

Table of Contents   

In addition, net investment income increased by
    $12 million, net of income tax, due primarily to a
    realignment of economic capital and an increase in net
    investment income from higher yields, somewhat offset by a lower
    asset base. Net investment gains (losses) increased by
    $11 million, net of income tax, for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year.

In addition, other revenues increased by $16 million, net
    of income tax, due primarily to slower than anticipated claims
    payments in 2006 resulting in slower recognition of deferred
    income in 2006 related to a reinsurance contract as compared to
    2007.

Negatively impacting net income were additional policyholder
    benefits and claims of $60 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to $39 million, $20 million, and
    $16 million, all net of income tax, of losses related to
    higher claim frequencies, higher earned exposures and higher
    losses due to severity, respectively. In addition, a
    $13 million increase, net of income tax, in unallocated
    claims adjusting expenses and an increase of $12 million,
    net of income tax, from a reduction in favorable development of
    prior year losses negatively impacted net income. Offsetting
    these increases was a $41 million, net of income tax,
    decrease in catastrophe losses, which included favorable
    development of prior year catastrophe reserves of
    $10 million, net of income tax.

In addition, there was a decrease of $1 million, net of
    income tax, in policyholder dividends that positively impacted
    net income.

Also favorably impacting net income was a reduction of
    $10 million, net of income tax, in other expenses related
    to lower information technology and advertising costs.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $84 million, or 3%, to $3,207 million for
    the year ended December 31, 2007 from $3,123 million
    for the comparable 2006 period.

Premiums increased by $42 million due principally to a
    $59 million increase in premiums related to increased
    exposures, an increase of $5 million from various voluntary
    and involuntary programs and an increase in premiums of
    $5 million, resulting from the change in estimate on auto
    rate refunds due to a regulatory examination. Offsetting these
    increases was a $21 million decrease related to a reduction
    in average earned premium per policy and an increase in
    catastrophe reinsurance costs of $6 million.

Net investment income increased by $19 million due to a
    realignment of economic capital and an increase in net
    investment income from higher yields, somewhat offset by a lower
    asset base.

In addition, other revenues increased $23 million due
    primarily to slower than anticipated claims payments resulting
    in slower recognition of deferred income in 2006 related to a
    reinsurance contract as compared to 2007.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $73 million, or 3%, to
    $2,641 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $2,568 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims increased by $90 million
    which was primarily due to an increase of $59 million from
    higher claim frequencies, as a result of a return to normal
    weather patterns in 2007 compared to the milder weather in 2006
    across the majority of the country, and a $25 million and
    $30 million increase in losses related to higher severity
    and higher earned exposures, respectively. In addition, an
    increase of $20 million in unallocated loss adjustment
    expenses, primarily resulting from an increase in claims-related
    information technology costs, and a $19 million decrease in
    favorable development of prior year losses, representing
    $148 million of favorable development for 2007 as compared
    to $167 million for the 2006 period, increased policyholder
    benefits and claims. Offsetting these increases in losses was a
    decrease of $63 million in catastrophe losses, which
    includes $15 million of favorable loss development from
    prior year catastrophes.

Policyholder dividends decreased by $2 million in 2007 as
    compared to the prior year.

Other expenses decreased by $15 million primarily related
    to lower information technology and advertising costs, partially
    offset by minor changes in a variety of expense categories.

95

Table of Contents   

Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were favorable for the year ended
    December 31, 2007, although lower than the comparable
    period of 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding catastrophes,
    increased to 86.3% from 82.8% for the year ended
    December 31, 2006.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   Auto  
    Home   

Net
    Income  

Net income increased by $192 million, or 86%, to
    $416 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $224 million for the comparable 2005 period.

The increase in net income was primarily attributable to a loss
    in the third quarter of 2005 from Hurricane Katrina of
    $124 million, net of income tax, related to losses, loss
    adjusting expenses and reinstatement and additional
    reinsurance-related premiums and a loss in the fourth quarter of
    2005 related to losses and expenses from Hurricane Wilma of
    $32 million, net of income tax. Excluding the losses from
    Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma, net income increased by
    $36 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    the comparable 2005 period.

Favorable development of prior year loss reserves contributed
    $72 million, net of income tax, to the increase in net
    income. In addition, an improvement in non-catastrophe loss
    experience, primarily due to improved frequencies, contributed
    $16 million, net of income tax and a reduction in loss
    adjustment expenses, primarily due to improved claims handling
    practices, contributed $13 million, net of income tax, to
    the increase. The increase in net income was offset by higher
    catastrophe losses in the current year, excluding the impact of
    Katrina and Wilma, resulting in a decrease to net income of
    $49 million, net of income tax.

Also impacting net income was a decrease in net earned premiums,
    excluding the impact of Hurricane Katrina, of $19 million,
    net of income tax, resulting primarily from an increase of
    $16 million, net of income tax, in catastrophe reinsurance
    costs and a reduction of $4 million, net of income tax, in
    involuntary assumed business, offset by an increase in premiums
    of $1 million, net of income tax, primarily from increased
    exposures, mostly offset by lower average premium per policy.

In addition, other revenues decreased by $7 million, net of
    income tax, due to slower than anticipated claims payments
    resulting in slower recognition of deferred income related to a
    reinsurance contract. Net investment income decreased by
    $3 million, net of income tax, due to a $12 million
    decrease in net investment income related to a realignment of
    economic capital, partially offset by a $9 million increase
    in income as a result of a slightly higher asset base. Net
    investment gains (losses) increased $10 million, net of
    income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared
    to the comparable 2005 period. Other expenses increased by
    $11 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    expenditures related to information technology, advertising and
    compensation costs.

The change in effective tax rates between periods accounted for
    the remainder of the increase in net income.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    decreased by $2 million, or less than 1%, to
    $3,123 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $3,125 million for the comparable 2005 period.

Premiums increased by $13 million due principally to the
    existence of a $43 million charge for reinstatement and
    additional reinsurance premiums in the third quarter of 2005
    related to Hurricane Katrina. Premiums decreased by
    $30 million year over year after giving consideration to
    this charge. This decrease resulted from $25 million in
    additional catastrophe reinsurance costs and a decrease of
    $6 million in involuntary assumed business in 2006, mainly
    associated with the Massachusetts involuntary market. These
    changes were partially offset by an increase in premiums of
    $35 million resulting from increased exposures, offset by a
    $34 million decrease in premiums from a change in the
    average earned premium per policy.

Net investment income decreased by $4 million primarily due
    to an $18 million decrease in net investment income related
    to a realignment of economic capital, mostly offset by a
    $14 million increase in income as a result of a slightly
    higher asset base with slightly higher yields.

96

Table of Contents   

Other revenues decreased by $11 million due to slower than
    anticipated claims payments resulting in a slower recognition of
    deferred income related to a reinsurance contract.

Expenses  

Total expenses decreased by $257 million, or 9%, to
    $2,568 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $2,825 million for the comparable 2005 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims decreased by $277 million
    which was primarily due to $196 million in claims and
    expenses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma incurred in
    2005. The remainder of the decrease in policyholder benefits and
    claims for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to
    the same period in 2005, can be attributed to $111 million
    in additional favorable development of prior year losses,
    improvements in claim frequencies of $72 million and a
    decrease of $20 million in unallocated loss expense due
    primarily to improved claims handling practices. These decreases
    in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, compared to the same period in 2005,
    were partially offset by $32 million of additional losses
    due to severity, $15 million of additional losses due to
    exposure growth and a $75 million increase in catastrophe
    losses, excluding Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma.

Other expenses increased by $17 million primarily due to
    expenditures related to information technology, advertising and
    compensation costs.

Underwriting results, excluding catastrophes, in the
    Auto   Home segment were favorable for the year ended
    December 31, 2006, as the combined ratio, excluding
    catastrophes, decreased to 82.8% from 86.7% for the year ended
    December 31, 2005.

International  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the International segment for the years indicated:

97

Table of Contents   

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   International   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $472 million, or 274%, to $644 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $172 million for the
    comparable 2006 period. This increase includes the impact of net
    investment gains of $42 million, net of income tax.

Excluding the impact of net investment gains (losses), income
    from continuing operations increased by $430 million from
    the comparable 2006 period.

Income from continuing operations increased in:

Argentina by $146 million, net of income tax, primarily due
    to a net reduction of liabilities by $48 million, net of
    income tax, resulting from pension reform. Additionally,
    $66 million of a valuation allowance related to a deferred
    tax asset established in connection with such pension reform
    liabilities was reduced, resulting in a commensurate increase in
    income from continuing operations. Under the reform plan, fund
    administrators are no longer liable for death and disability
    claims of the plan participants, however administrators retain
    the obligation for administering certain existing and future
    participants  accounts for which they receive no revenue.
    Also contributing is the favorable impact of reductions in claim
    liabilities resulting from experience reviews in both the
    current and prior years, higher premiums primarily due to higher
    pension contributions attributable to higher participant
    salaries, higher net investment income resulting from capital
    contributions in the prior year, and a smaller increase in
    market indexed policyholder liabilities without a corresponding
    decrease in net investment income, partially offset by the
    reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new
    pension system reform regulation, an increase in retention
    incentives related to pension reform, as well as lower trading
    portfolio income. Argentina also benefited, in both the current
    and prior years, from the utilization of tax loss carryforwards
    against which valuation allowances had previously been
    established, and in the current year from the reduction of
    valuation allowances due to expected realizability of deferred
    tax assets.

Mexico by $139 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities caused by a
    decrease in the unrealized investment results on invested assets
    supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year, the
    favorable impact of experience refunds during the first quarter
    of 2007 in its institutional business, a reduction in claim
    liabilities resulting from experience reviews, the adverse
    impact in the prior year of an adjustment for experience refunds
    in its institutional business, a year over year decrease in DAC
    amortization as a result of management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits in both
    the current and prior years, a decrease in liabilities based on
    a review of outstanding remittances, as well as growth in its
    institutional and universal life businesses. These increases
    were offset by lower fees resulting from management s
    update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits,
    the favorable impact in the prior year associated with a large
    group policy that was not renewed by the policyholder, a
    decrease in various one-time revenue items, lower investment
    yields, the favorable impact in the prior year of liabilities
    related to employment matters that were reduced, and the benefit
    in the prior year from the elimination of liabilities for
    pending claims that were determined to be invalid following a
    review.

Taiwan by $51 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    an increase in DAC amortization in the prior year due to a loss
    recognition adjustment and prior year restructuring costs of
    $11 million associated with the termination of the agency
    distribution channel, partially offset by the favorable impact
    of liability refinements in the prior year and higher
    policyholder liabilities related to loss recognition in the
    prior year.

Brazil by $37 million, net of income tax, due to the
    unfavorable impact of increases in policyholder liabilities due
    to higher than expected mortality on specific blocks of business
    in the prior year, an increase in litigation liabilities in the
    prior year and the unfavorable impact of the reversal of a tax
    credit in the prior year, as well as growth of the in-force
    business.

Ireland by $19 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    the utilization of net operating losses for which a valuation
    allowance had been previously established as well as higher
    investment income resulting from

98

Table of Contents   

higher invested assets from a capital contribution, partially
    offset by higher
     start-up 
    expenses and currency transaction losses.

Japan by $22 million, net of income tax, due to improved
    hedge results and business growth, partially offset by the
    impact of foreign currency transaction losses.

Hong Kong by $9 million, net of income tax, due to the
    acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and
    the resulting consolidation of the operation, as well as
    business growth.

Chile by $8 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    continued growth of the in-force business, higher joint venture
    income and higher returns on inflation indexed securities,
    partially offset by higher compensation, infrastructure and
    marketing expenses.

The United Kingdom by $3 million, net of income tax, due to
    a reduction of claim liabilities resulting from an experience
    review, offset by an unearned premium calculation refinement.

Australia by $1 million, net of income tax, due to changes
    in foreign currency exchange rates offset by higher claims and
    business growth.

Partially offsetting these increases, income from continuing
    operations decreased in:

The home office by $9 million, net of income tax, due to
    higher economic capital charges and investment expenses of
    $16 million, net of income tax, a $3 million increase
    in contingent tax expenses in the current year, as well as
    higher spending on growth and initiatives, partially offset by
    the elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously
    charged to the International segment and a tax benefit
    associated with a prior year income tax expense of
    $7 million related to a revision of an estimate.

India by $3 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    headcount increases and growth initiatives, as well as the
    impact of valuation allowances established against losses in
    both years.

South Korea by $4 million, net of income tax, due to a
    favorable impact in the prior year of $38 million, net of
    income tax, in DAC amortization associated with the
    implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system, as
    well as additional expenses in the current year associated with
    growth and infrastructure initiatives, partially offset by
    continued growth in its variable universal life business, lower
    DAC amortization in the variable universal life business due to
    favorable market performance and a lower increase in claim
    liabilities.

The remainder of the change in income from continuing operations
    can be attributed to contributions from the other countries.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $858 million, or 19%, to $5,362 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $4,504 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $560 million, or 16%, to $4,114 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $3,554 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in:

Mexico by $133 million primarily due to higher fees and
    growth in its institutional and universal life businesses, a
    decrease of $13 million in experience refunds during the
    first quarter of 2007 on Mexico s institutional business,
    as well as the adverse impact in the prior year of an adjustment
    for experience refunds on Mexico s institutional business.
    These increases were offset by lower fees resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits, and various one-time revenue items for
    which the prior year benefited by $16 million and the
    current year benefited by $4 million.

Hong Kong by $98 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation, as well as business growth.

99

Table of Contents   

Chile by $94 million primarily due to higher annuity sales
    resulting from a higher interest rate environment, improved
    competitive conditions and an expected rate increase in 2008,
    higher institutional premiums from its traditional and bank
    distribution channels, as well as the decrease in the prior year
    resulting from management s decision not to match
    aggressive pricing in the marketplace.

South Korea by $90 million primarily due to higher fees
    from growth in its guaranteed annuity business and variable
    universal life business.

Brazil by $35 million primarily due to changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates and business growth.

The Company s Japan operation by $31 million due to an
    increase in reinsurance assumed.

Australia by $26 million as a result of growth in the
    institutional and reinsurance in-force business, an increase in
    retention levels and changes in the foreign currency exchange
    rates.

Argentina by $21 million primarily due to an increase in
    premiums and fees from higher pension contributions resulting
    from higher participant salaries and a higher salary threshold
    subject to fees and growth in bancassurance, partially offset by
    the reduction of cost of insurance fees as a result of the new
    pension system reform regulation.

Taiwan and India by $21 million and $11 million,
    respectively, primarily due to business growth.

Partially offsetting these increases, premiums, fees and other
    revenues decreased in:

The United Kingdom by $3 million due to an unearned premium
    calculation refinement partially offset by changes in foreign
    currency rates.

The remainder of the change in premiums, fees and other revenues
    can be attributed to contributions from the other countries.

Net investment income increased by $298 million, or 31%, to
    $1,248 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $950 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Net investment income increased in:

Chile by $148 million due to the impact of higher inflation
    rates on indexed securities, the valuations and returns of which
    are linked to inflation rates, higher joint venture income, as
    well as an increase in invested assets.

Mexico by $46 million due to an increase in invested
    assets, partially offset by a decrease in yields, exclusive of
    inflation.

Hong Kong by $43 million primarily due to the acquisition
    of the remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Japan by $19 million due to an increase of $52 million
    from hedging activities associated with Japan s guaranteed
    annuity, offset by a decrease of $33 million, net of income
    tax, in the Company s investment in Japan primarily due to
    an increase in the costs of guaranteed annuity benefits and the
    impact of foreign currency transaction losses, partially offset
    by business growth.

South Korea and Taiwan by $24 million and $6 million,
    respectively, primarily due to increases in invested assets.

Brazil by $14 million primarily due to increases in
    invested assets as well as changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates.

Australia by $12 million due to changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates, higher yields and increases in invested assets.

Ireland by $9 million due to an increase in invested assets
    resulting from capital contributions.

India by $4 million due to an increase in invested assets,
    as well as higher yields.

100

Table of Contents   

Partially offsetting these increases in net investment income
    was a decrease in:

The home office of $25 million primarily due to an increase
    in the amount charged for economic capital and investment
    management expenses.

Argentina by $7 million primarily due to unfavorable
    results in the trading portfolio, partially offset by higher
    invested assets resulting from capital contributions in the
    prior year. Additionally, net investment income in the prior
    year did not decrease correspondingly with the decrease in
    policyholder benefits and claims discussed below because the
    prior year did not include interest- and inflation-indexed
    assets to support such liabilities.

The remainder of the change in net investment income can be
    attributed to contributions from the other countries.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a
    $106 million increase in total revenues, excluding net
    investment gains (losses).

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $338 million, or 8%, to
    $4,565 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $4,227 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by
    $119 million, or 4%, to $2,817 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from $2,698 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in:

Chile by $221 million primarily due to an increase in
    inflation indexed policyholder liabilities as well as growth in
    its annuity and institutional businesses.

Hong Kong by $119 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Taiwan by $65 million primarily due to a decrease of
    $14 million in the prior year from liability refinements
    associated with the conversion to a new valuation system, as
    well as higher policyholder liabilities related to loss
    recognition in the fourth quarter of 2006 and growth in the
    business.

South Korea by $27 million primarily due to business growth
    as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially
    offset by a lower increase in claims liabilities resulting from
    a change in the reinsurance allowance in the prior year.

Australia by $23 million due to higher claims, an increase
    in retention levels, business growth and changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates.

India by $4 million due to higher claims and business
    growth, partially offset by management s update of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits.

Partially offsetting these increases in policyholder benefits
    and claims, policyholder dividends and interest credited to
    policyholder account balances were decreases in:

Argentina by $250 million primarily due to the elimination
    of liabilities for claims and premium deficiencies of
    $208 million resulting from pension reform. Under the
    reform plan, which is effective January 1, 2008, fund
    administrators are no longer liable for new death and disability
    claims of the plan participants. Also contributing is a decrease
    in interest- and market-indexed policyholder liabilities and the
    favorable impact of reductions in claim liabilities resulting
    from experience reviews in both the current and prior years.

Mexico by $63 million, primarily due to a decrease in
    certain policyholder liabilities of $117 million caused by
    a decrease in the unrealized investment results on the invested
    assets supporting those liabilities relative to the prior year
    and a reduction in claim liabilities resulting from experience
    reviews, offset by an increase

101

Table of Contents   

of $10 million due to a decrease in the prior year of
    policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that
    was not renewed by the policyholder, an increase of
    $6 million due to a benefit in the prior year from the
    elimination of liabilities for pending claims that were
    determined to be invalid following a review, as well as business
    growth.

Brazil of $13 million primarily due to the impact in the
    prior year of increases in policyholder liabilities from higher
    than expected mortality on specific blocks of business,
    partially offset by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

The United Kingdom by $8 million, due to a reduction of
    claim liabilities based on a review of experience.

Decreases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Other expenses increased by $219 million, or 14%, to
    $1,748 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $1,529 million for the comparable 2006 period.

Other expenses increased in:

Argentina by $153 million, primarily due to a liability of
    $128 million for servicing obligations that was established
    as a result of pension reform. Under the reform plan, which is
    effective January 1, 2008, the Company retains the
    obligation for administering certain existing and future
    participants  accounts for which they receive no revenue.
    Also contributing is an increase in commissions on bancassurance
    business, an increase in retention incentives related to pension
    reform, the impact of management s update of DAC
    assumptions as a result of pension reform and growth, partially
    offset by a lower increase in liabilities due to inflation and
    exchange rate indexing.

South Korea by $92 million, primarily due to the favorable
    impact in the prior year of $60 million in DAC amortization
    associated with the implementation of a more refined reserve
    valuation system and additional expenses in the current year
    associated with growth and infrastructure initiatives, as well
    as business growth and higher bank insurance fees, partially
    offset by a decrease in DAC amortization related to market
    performance.

Mexico by $27 million primarily due to higher expenses
    related to business growth and the favorable impact in the prior
    year of liabilities related to employment matters that were
    reduced, offset by a decrease in DAC amortization resulting from
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits in both the current and prior years, and
    a decrease in liabilities based on a review of outstanding
    remittances.

India by $14 million primarily due to headcount increases
    and growth initiatives, partially offset by the impact of
    management s update of assumptions used to determine
    estimated gross profits.

Australia by $12 million primarily due to business growth
    and changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Chile by $12 million primarily due to higher compensation
    costs, higher spending on infrastructure and marketing programs
    and growth, partially offset by a decrease in DAC amortization
    related to inflation indexing.

Hong Kong by $11 million due to the acquisition of the
    remaining 50% interest in MetLife Fubon and the resulting
    consolidation of the operation.

Ireland by $10 million due to additional
     start-up 
    costs, as well as $5 million of foreign currency
    transaction losses.

Brazil by $9 million primarily due to changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates, partially offset by an increase in
    litigation liabilities in the prior year.

The United Kingdom by $2 million due to changes in foreign
    currency rates and higher spending on business initiatives,
    partially offset by lower DAC amortization resulting from
    calculation refinements.

102

Table of Contents   

Partially offsetting these increases in other expenses were
    decreases in:

Taiwan by $118 million primarily due to a one-time increase
    in DAC amortization in the prior year of $77 million due to
    a loss recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates
    relative to product guarantees coupled with high persistency
    rates on certain blocks of business, an increase in DAC
    amortization in the prior year associated with the
    implementation of a new valuation system, expenses of
    $17 million in the prior year related the termination of
    the agency distribution channel and expense reductions
    recognized in the current year due to elimination of the agency
    distribution channel.

The home office of $4 million primarily due to the
    elimination of certain intercompany expenses previously charged
    to the International Segment, offset by higher spending on
    growth and infrastructure initiatives.

Decreases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a
    $105 million increase in total expenses.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   International   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations decreased by $14 million,
    or 8%, to $172 million for the year ended December 31,
    2006 from $186 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $20 million during the
    first six months of 2006 to income from continuing operations,
    which includes $3 million, net of income tax, of net
    investment gains. Included in the Travelers results is an
    increase to policyholder benefits and claims of
    $10 million, net of income tax, resulting from the increase
    in policyholder liabilities due to higher than expected
    mortality in Brazil on specific blocks of business written in
    the Travelers entity since the acquisition, and consistent with
    the increase in the existing MetLife entity as described more
    fully below. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income from
    continuing operations decreased by $34 million, or 18%,
    from the comparable 2005 period. This decrease includes the
    impact of net investment gains (losses) of ($17) million,
    net of income tax. Excluding the impact of Travelers and of net
    investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations
    decreased by $17 million from the comparable 2005 period.

Income from continuing operations decreased in:

Taiwan by $59 million, net of income tax, due to a loss
    recognition adjustment (in the form of accelerated DAC
    amortization) of $50 million, net of income tax, and
    restructuring costs of $11 million, net of income tax,
    partially offset by reserve refinements of $3 million, net
    of income tax, associated with the conversion to a new valuation
    system.

Canada by $19 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    the realignment of economic capital in the prior year.

Mexico by $12 million, net of income tax, due to an
    increase in amortization of DAC resulting from management s
    update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross margins
    in both years, higher operating expenses from the pension
    business, the net impact of an adjustment to the liability for
    experience refunds on a block of business, a decrease in various
    one-time other revenue items for which the prior year benefited
    by $13 million, net of income tax, and the current year
    benefited by $11 million, net of income tax, as well as an
    increase of $27 million in tax due to tax benefits realized
    in the prior year from the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
    ( AJCA ).These were partially offset by a decrease in
    certain policyholder liabilities caused by a decrease in
    unrealized investment gains on invested assets supporting those
    liabilities relative to the prior year, a decrease in
    policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that
    was not renewed by the policyholder, a benefit in the current
    year from the elimination of liabilities for pending claims that
    were determined to be invalid following a review, the
    unfavorable impact in the prior year of contingent liabilities
    that were established related to potential employment matters in
    that year and which were eliminated in the current year as well
    as overall business growth.

Brazil by $7 million, net of income tax, primarily due to a
    $10 million, net of income tax, increase in policyholder
    benefits and claims related to an increase in future
    policyholder benefit liabilities on specific

103

Table of Contents   

blocks of business. This increase is due to significantly higher
    than expected mortality experience, of which a total of
    $20 million, net of income tax, of additional liabilities
    were recorded, $10 million, net of income tax, of which was
    associated with the acquired Travelers  business, and of
    which $10 million, net of income tax, was related to the
    existing MetLife entities. Brazil s income from continuing
    operations was also impacted by an increase in litigation
    liabilities, as well as adverse claim experience in the current
    year.

The Company s investment in Japan by $4 million, net
    of income tax, due to variability in the hedging program.

The home office by $49 million primarily due to recorded
    higher infrastructure expenditures in support of segment growth
    of $39 million, net of income tax, as well as a
    $23 million, net of income tax, contingent tax liability.
    This was offset by an increase in income from continuing
    operations of $13 million, net of income tax, due to a
    reduction in the amount charged for economic capital.

The Company s operation in Ireland reduced operating income
    by $34 million, net of income tax, due to
     start-up 
    expenses in the current year. A valuation allowance was
    established against the deferred income tax benefit resulting
    from the Ireland losses.

Partially offsetting these decreases in income from continuing
    operations were increases in:

South Korea by $79 million, net of income tax, primarily
    due to continued growth of the in-force business, a one-time
    benefit of $38 million, net of income tax, associated with
    the implementation of a more refined reserve valuation system,
    as well as a benefit of $13 million from the impact of
    foreign currency exchange rates.

Argentina by $61 million, net of income tax, due to higher
    net investment income resulting from capital contributions since
    the completion of the Travelers acquisition, the release of
    liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be
    invalid following a review, the favorable impact of foreign
    currency exchange rates and inflation rates on certain
    contingent liabilities, the utilization of $4 million of
    net operating losses for which a valuation allowance had been
    previously established, a $12 million increase in the prior
    year period of a deferred income tax valuation allowance
    established against tax benefits in that year, as well as
    business growth.

Australia by $22 million, net of income tax, primarily due
    to reserve strengthening on a block of business in the prior
    year, as well as business growth.

Chile by $5 million, net of income tax, primarily due to
    growth in the institutional business of $2 million, as well
    as the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates of
    $2 million.

The United Kingdom by $5 million, net of income tax,
    primarily due to growth of the in-force business.

The remainder of the decrease in income from continuing
    operations can be attributed to other countries. Changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates accounted for $2 million of
    the increase in income from continuing operations.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $925 million, or 26%, to $4,504 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $3,579 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $366 million during
    the first six months of 2006 to the period over period increase.
    Excluding the impact of Travelers, such revenues increased by
    $559 million, or 16%, over the comparable 2005 period.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased by
    $469 million, or 17%, to $3,254 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $2,785 million for the
    comparable 2005 period.

Premiums, fees and other revenues increased in:

Mexico by $159 million, primarily due to higher fees and
    growth in its universal life and institutional business,
    partially offset by an adjustment for experience refunds on a
    block of business and various one-

104

Table of Contents   

time other revenue items for which the prior year benefited by
    $19 million and the current year benefited by
    $16 million.

South Korea by $156 million primarily due to business
    growth driven by strong sales of its variable universal life
    product, as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency
    exchange rates of $56 million.

Brazil by $49 million due to business growth and higher
    bancassurance business, as well as an increase in amounts
    retained under reinsurance arrangements.

Chile by $22 million primarily due to the favorable impact
    of foreign currency exchange rates of $14 million, as well
    as an increase in institutional premiums through its bank
    distribution channel, partially offset by lower annuity sales
    due in part from management s decision not to match
    aggressive pricing in the marketplace.

The United Kingdom, Argentina, Australia, and Taiwan by
    $21 million, $16 million, $15 million, and
    $12 million respectively, primarily due to business growth.

Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Net investment income increased by $90 million, or 11%, to
    $884 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $794 million for the comparable 2005 period.

Net investment income increased in:

Argentina by $41 million primarily due to higher invested
    assets resulting from capital contributions since the completion
    of the Travelers acquisition.

Mexico by $28 million primarily due to higher inflation
    rates and increases in invested assets, partially offset by
    lower average investment yields.

South Korea, Brazil and Taiwan by $25 million,
    $14 million and $5 million, respectively, primarily
    due to increases in invested assets, as well as the favorable
    impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $10 million.

Home office by $17 million primarily due to a reduction in
    the amount charged for economic capital from the prior year.

Partially offsetting these increases in net investment income
    were decreases in:

Chile by $8 million primarily due to a reduction in the
    inflation rate, partially offset by the favorable impact of
    foreign currency exchange rates of $8 million and increases
    in invested assets. The invested asset valuations and returns on
    these invested assets are linked to inflation rates in most of
    the Latin American countries in which the Company does business.

Canada by $33 million due to the realignment of economic
    capital.

Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had a favorable
    impact of $105 million on total revenues, excluding net
    investment gains (losses).

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $857 million, or 25%, to
    $4,227 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $3,370 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers contributed $346 million during
    the first six months of 2006 to the year over year increase.
    Excluding the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by
    $511 million, or 15%, over the comparable 2005 period.

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased by
    $187 million, or 8%, to $2,560 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from $2,373 million for the
    comparable 2005 period.

105

Table of Contents   

Policyholder benefits and claims, policyholder dividends and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances increased in:

Mexico by $113 million primarily due to an increase in
    other policyholder benefits and claims of $108 million and
    in interest credited to policyholder account balances of
    $39 million commensurate with the growth in revenue
    discussed above. These increases in Mexico were partially offset
    by a decrease in certain policyholder liabilities of
    $18 million caused by a decrease in the unrealized
    investment gains on the invested assets supporting those
    liabilities, a $10 million benefit from a decrease in
    policyholder benefits associated with a large group policy that
    was not renewed by the policyholder, and a $6 million
    benefit in the current year from the elimination of liabilities
    for pending claims that were determined to be invalid following
    a review.

Brazil by $49 million primarily due to an increase in
    policyholder liabilities on these specific blocks of business as
    discussed above, an increase in amounts retained under
    reinsurance arrangements, as well as adverse claim experience in
    other lines of business.

South Korea by $44 million commensurate with the business
    growth discussed above, as well as the impact of foreign
    currency exchange rates of $33 million.

Partially offsetting these increases, policyholder benefits and
    claims, policyholder dividends, and interest credited to
    policyholder account balances decreased in:

Australia by $22 million due to reserve strengthening in
    the prior year on a block of reinsurance business.

Chile by $7 million primarily due to a decrease in annuity
    liabilities related to the decrease in the inflation index and
    the decrease in annuity premiums discussed above, partially
    offset by growth in the institutional business, as well as the
    impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $17 million.

Taiwan by $2 million primarily due to a decrease of
    $14 million from reserve refinements associated with the
    implementation of a new valuation system, partially offset by an
    increase of $12 million primarily due to business growth.

Argentina by $2 million primarily due to the elimination of
    liabilities for pending claims that were determined to be
    invalid following a review, partially offset by business growth.
    Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Other expenses increased by $324 million, or 32%, to
    $1,321 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $997 million for the comparable 2005 period.

Other expenses increased in:

Taiwan by $110 million primarily due to a one-time increase
    in DAC amortization of $77 million due to a loss
    recognition adjustment resulting from low interest rates
    relative to product guarantees coupled with high persistency
    rates on certain blocks of business, an increase of
    $17 million related to the termination of the agency
    distribution channel in Taiwan, an increase of $9 million
    from refinements associated with the implementation of a new
    valuation system, as well as business growth.

Mexico by $49 million primarily due to an increase in
    commissions commensurate with the revenue growth discussed
    above, higher DAC amortization resulting from management s
    update of assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits
    in both the current and prior years, higher expenses related to
    growth initiatives, and additional expenses associated with the
    Mexican pension business, partially offset by the favorable
    impact of contingent liabilities that were established in the
    prior year related to potential employment matters and which
    were eliminated in the current year.

South Korea by $25 million, primarily due to an increase in
    DAC amortization and general expenses, which were both due to
    the growth in business, the impact in the prior year of an
    accrual for an early retirement program and the impact of
    foreign currency exchange rates of $15 million. These were
    partially offset by a decrease of $60 million in DAC
    amortization associated with the implementation of a more
    refined reserve valuation system.

106

Table of Contents   

Brazil by $25 million primarily due to the growth in
    business discussed above, as well as an increase in litigation
    liabilities.

Chile by $13 million due to increased commissions and other
    expenses associated with its institutional business, as well as
    the impact of foreign currency exchange rates of $4 million.

The United Kingdom and Australia by $15 million and
    $3 million, respectively, primarily due to business growth.

Home office by $57 million primarily due to an increase in
    expenditures for information technology projects, growth
    initiative projects and integration costs, as well as an
    increase in compensation resulting from an increase in headcount
    from the comparable 2005 period.

Ireland by $34 million primarily related to the
     start-up  of
    the Company s operation in Ireland.

Offsetting these increases, other expenses decreased in:

Argentina by $9 million primarily due to the favorable
    impact of foreign currency exchange rates and inflation rates on
    certain contingent liabilities.

Increases in other countries accounted for the remainder of the
    change.

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates accounted for
    $90 million of the increase in total expenses.

Reinsurance  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for the Reinsurance segment for the years indicated:

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   Reinsurance   

Net
    Income  

Net income increased by $15 million, or 13%, to
    $133 million for the twelve months ended December 31,
    2007 from $118 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The increase in net income was attributable to a 13% increase in
    premiums while policyholder benefits and claims increased by
    14%, a 19% increase in net investment income while interest
    credited to policyholder account

107

Table of Contents   

balances increased by 3%, and a 17% increase in other revenues.
    The increase in premiums, net of the increase in policyholder
    benefits and claims, added $41 million to net income, net
    of income tax, which was primarily due to additional business
    in-force from facultative and automatic treaties and renewal
    premiums on existing blocks of business in the U.S. and
    international operations. Policyholder benefits and claims as a
    percentage of premiums were 81% and are comparable to the prior
    year. The increase in net investment income, net of interest
    credited to policyholder account balances, added
    $85 million to net income and was due primarily to growth
    in the invested asset base. The increases in invested assets and
    net investment income, net of interest credited to policyholder
    account balances were substantially derived from the issuance of
    notes, which also increased interest expense within other
    expenses as described below. Additionally, positive operating
    cash flows and additional policyholder account balances
    contributed to the growth in the invested asset base. The
    increase in other revenues added $7 million to net income,
    net of income tax, and was primarily related to an increase in
    investment product fees on asset-intensive business and
    financial reinsurance fees during 2007.

A decrease in other expenses added $1 million to net
    income, net of income tax. The decrease in other expenses was
    primarily related to a reduction of expenses associated with
    DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, offset by an
    increase in interest, expense compensation and overhead-related
    expenses associated with RGA s international expansion, and
    minority interest expense. The increase in interest expense is
    associated with the issuance of $850 million
     30-year 
    notes in June 2006 by a subsidiary of RGA to provide long-term
    collateral for Regulation XXX statutory reserves,
    RGA s issuance of $300 million senior notes in March
    2007, and FIN 48 interest expense.

These increases in net income were partially offset by a
    $120 million increase in net investment losses, net of
    income tax. The increase in net investment losses was primarily
    due to a decrease in the fair value of embedded derivatives
    associated with the reinsurance of annuity products on a funds
    withheld basis.

Additionally, a component of the increase in net income was a
    $4 million increase associated with foreign currency
    exchange rate movements.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $712 million, or 14%, to $5,858 million
    for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 from
    $5,146 million for the comparable 2006 period.

The increase in revenues was primarily associated with growth in
    premiums of $562 million from new facultative and automatic
    treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in
    all RGA operating segments, including the U.S., which
    contributed $221 million; Asia Pacific, which contributed
    $192 million; Europe and South Africa, which contributed
    $91 million; and Canada, which contributed
    $58 million. Premium levels are significantly influenced by
    large transactions and reporting practices of ceding companies
    and, as a result, can fluctuate from period to period.

Net investment income increased by $139 million primarily
    due to growth in the invested asset base from net proceeds from
    the aforementioned notes offerings by RGA and its subsidiary,
    positive cash flows from operations, additional deposits
    associated with the coinsurance of annuity products, and a
    realignment of economic capital. The investment yield also
    increased slightly over the comparable prior year.

Other revenues increased by $11 million primarily due to an
    increase in surrender charges on asset-intensive business
    reinsured and an increase in fees associated with financial
    reinsurance.

Additionally, a component of the increase in total revenues,
    excluding net investment gains (losses), was a $128 million
    increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate
    movements.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $506 million, or 10%, to
    $5,477 million for the twelve months ended
    December 31, 2007 from $4,971 million for the
    comparable 2006 period.

This increase in total expenses was primarily attributable to an
    increase of $499 million in policyholder benefits and
    claims, primarily associated with a growth in insurance in-force
    of $179 billion, and an increase of

108

Table of Contents   

$8 million in interest credited to policyholder account
    balances. This increase in interest credited to policyholder
    account balances was more than offset by an increase in net
    investment income. In addition to the in-force growth, favorable
    mortality in the prior year in the international operations
    added to the increase in policyholder benefits and claims.

Other expenses decreased by $1 million due to a
    $79 million decrease in expenses associated with DAC,
    including reinsurance allowances paid, offset by a
    $41 million increase in interest expense associated with
    the aforementioned notes offerings by RGA and its subsidiary and
    the application of FIN 48, and an $7 million increase
    in minority interest expense. Included in the $79 million
    decrease in expenses associated with DAC was a $113 million
    reduction of DAC amortization due to the change in the value of
    embedded derivatives associated with modified coinsurance
    arrangements as a result of the impact of widening credit
    spreads in the U.S. debt markets. An offsetting increase of
    $30 million was primarily due to compensation and
    overhead-related expenses associated with RGA s
    international expansion and general growth in operations,
    including equity compensation expense.

Additionally, a component of the increase in total expenses, was
    a $121 million increase associated with foreign currency
    exchange rate movements.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   Reinsurance   

Net
    Income  

Net income increased by $26 million, or 28%, to
    $118 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $92 million for the comparable 2005 period.

The increase in net income was attributable to a 12% increase in
    premiums while policyholder benefits and claims increased by 9%,
    a 21% increase in net investment income while interest credited
    to policyholder account balances increased by 15%, and a 14%
    increase in other revenues. The increase in premiums, net of the
    increase in policyholder benefits and claims, added
    $127 million to net income which was primarily due to added
    business in-force from facultative and automatic treaties and
    renewal premiums on existing blocks of business in the
    U.S. and international operations. The increase in
    policyholder benefits and claims was partially offset by
    unfavorable mortality and an increase in the liabilities
    associated with RGA s Argentine pension business, both in
    the prior-year period. The increase in net investment income and
    interest credited to policyholder account balances added
    $60 million to net income and was due to growth in the
    invested asset base. The increase in invested assets, and net
    investment income, substantially derived from the issuance of
    notes and a collateral financing facility, which increased
    interest expense within other expenses as described below. The
    increase in other revenues added $5 million to net income
    and was primarily related to an increase in investment product
    fees on asset-intensive business and financial reinsurance fees
    during 2006, partially offset by a decrease in foreign currency
    transaction gains in the prior-year period.

These increases in net income were partially offset by a
    $153 million increase in other expenses and a
    $10 million decrease in net investment gains (losses), all
    net of income tax. Additionally, a higher effective tax rate in
    2006 reduced net income by $3 million. The increase in
    other expenses was primarily related to expenses associated with
    DAC, including reinsurance allowances paid, interest expense
    associated with RGA s issuance of $850 million
     30-year 
    notes to provide long-term collateral for Regulation XXX
    statutory reserves in June 2006 and $400 million of junior
    subordinated notes in December 2005, minority interest expense,
    and equity compensation expense.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $613 million, or 14%, to $5,146 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from
    $4,533 million for the comparable 2005 period.

The increase in such revenues was primarily associated with
    growth in premiums of $479 million from new facultative and
    automatic treaties and renewal premiums on existing blocks of
    business in all RGA operating segments, including the U.S.,
    which contributed $220 million; Asia Pacific, which
    contributed $138 million; Canada, which contributed
    $86 million; and Europe and South Africa, which contributed
    $35 million. Premium

109

Table of Contents   

levels were significantly influenced by large transactions and
    reporting practices of ceding companies and, as a result, can
    fluctuate from period to period.

Net investment income increased by $126 million, primarily
    due to growth in the invested asset base from net proceeds of
    RGA s $850 million
     30-year 
    notes offering in June 2006 and $400 million junior
    subordinated note offering in December 2005, positive operating
    cash inflows and additional deposits associated with the
    coinsurance of annuity products. Investment yields were down
    slightly compared to the prior-year period. The increase in net
    investment income was partially offset by a decrease related to
    a realignment of economic capital.

Other revenues increased by $8 million primarily due to an
    increase in investment product fees on asset-intensive business
    and financial reinsurance fees during 2006, partially offset by
    a decrease in foreign currency transaction gains.

Additionally, a component of the increase in total revenues,
    excluding net investment gains (losses), was a $36 million
    increase associated with foreign currency exchange rate
    movements.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $554 million, or 13%, to
    $4,971 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $4,417 million for the comparable 2005 period.

The increase in total expenses was commensurate with the growth
    in revenues and was primarily attributable to an increase of
    $284 million in policyholder benefits and claims, primarily
    associated with growth in insurance in-force of
    $245 billion, and a $34 million increase in interest
    credited due to growth in policyholder account balances
    associated with the coinsurance of annuity products, which is
    generally offset by a corresponding increase in net investment
    income. The increase in policyholder benefits and claims of
    $284 million was partially offset by favorable underwriting
    results in RGA s international operations in the current
    year period, unfavorable mortality experience in the
    U.S. and the United Kingdom in the prior-year period, and a
    $33 million increase in the liabilities associated with the
    Argentine pension business in the prior year period.

Other expenses increased by $236 million due to a
    $92 million increase in expenses associated with DAC,
    including reinsurance allowances paid, a $47 million
    increase in interest expense primarily associated with
    RGA s issuance of $850 million
     30-year 
    notes in June 2006 and $400 million of junior subordinated
    notes in December 2005, as well as a $47 million increase
    in minority interest expense on the larger earnings base in the
    current period. The remaining increase of $50 million was
    primarily related to overhead-related expenses associated with
    RGA s international expansion and general growth in
    operations, including equity compensation expense.

Additionally, a component of the increase in total expenses was
    a $33 million increase associated with foreign currency
    exchange rate movements.

110

Table of Contents   

Corporate  
    Other  

The following table presents consolidated financial information
    for Corporate   Other for the years indicated:

Year
    ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2006   Corporate  
    Other   

Income
    from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations increased by
    $278 million, to a gain of $272 million for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 from a loss of $6 million for
    the comparable 2006 period. Included in this increase were lower
    net investment losses of $132 million, net of income tax,
    resulting in a net investment gain. Excluding the impact of net
    investment gains (losses), income from continuing operations
    increased by $146 million.

The increase in income from continuing operations was primarily
    attributable to higher net investment income, lower corporate
    expenses, higher other revenues, integration costs incurred in
    the prior year, and lower legal cost of $269 million,
    $56 million, $19 million, $17 million, and
    $7 million, respectively, each of which were net of income
    tax. This was partially offset by higher interest expense on
    debt, higher interest on tax contingencies, and higher interest
    credited to bankholder deposits of $86 million,
    $23 million, and $3 million respectively, each of
    which were net of income tax. Tax benefits decreased by
    $103 million over the comparable 2006 period due to the
    Company s implementation of FIN 48, the difference of
    finalizing the Company s 2006 tax return in 2007 when
    compared to finalizing the Company s 2005 tax return in
    2006 and the difference between the actual and the estimated tax
    rate allocated to the various segments.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $443 million, or 40%, to $1,558 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
    $1,115 million for the comparable 2006 period. This
    increase was primarily due to increased net investment income of
    $414 million, mainly on fixed maturity securities, driven
    by a higher asset base related to the reinvestment of proceeds
    from the sale of the Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town
    properties during the fourth quarter of 2006 and the investment
    of proceeds from issuances of junior subordinated debt in
    December 2006 and December 2007 and collateral financing
    arrangements to support statutory

111

Table of Contents   

reserves in May 2007 and December 2007. Net investment income
    also increased on other limited partnerships, real estate and
    real estate joint ventures, and mortgage loans. Other revenues
    increased by $29 million primarily related to the
    resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the 2000
    acquisition of GALIC, offset by an adjustment of surrender
    values on corporate-owned life insurance policies. Also included
    as a component of total revenues was the elimination of
    intersegment amounts which was offset within total expenses.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $61 million, or 4%, to
    $1,447 million for the year ended December 31, 2007
    from $1,386 million for the comparable 2006 period.
    Interest expense was higher by $133 million due to the
    issuances of junior subordinated debt in December 2006 and
    December 2007 and collateral financing arrangements in May 2007
    and December 2007, respectively, and from settlement fees on the
    prepayment of shares subject to mandatory redemption in October
    2007, partially offset by the maturity of senior notes in
    December 2006 and the reduction of commercial paper outstanding.
    Interest on tax contingencies was higher by $35 million as
    a result of an increase in published Internal Revenue Service
    ( IRS ) interest rates and a change in the method of
    estimating interest expense on tax contingencies associated with
    the Company s implementation of FIN 48. As a result of
    higher interest rates, interest credited on bank deposits
    increased by $5 million at MetLife Bank. Corporate expenses
    are lower by $86 million primarily due to lower corporate
    support expenses of $63 million, which included
    advertising,
     start-up 
    costs for new products and information technology costs, and
    lower costs from reductions of MetLife Foundation contributions
    of $23 million. Integration costs incurred in 2006 period
    were $25 million. Legal costs were lower by
    $11 million primarily due to a reduction in the current
    year of $35 million of legal liabilities resulting from the
    settlement of certain cases, lower other legal costs of
    $3 million partially offset by higher amortization and
    valuation of an asbestos insurance recoverable of
    $27 million. Also included as a component of total expenses
    were the elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset
    within total revenues.

Year
    ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended
    December 31, 2005   Corporate  
    Other   

Income
    (Loss) from Continuing Operations  

Income (loss) from continuing operations increased by
    $15 million, or 71%, to ($6) million for the year
    ended December 31, 2006 from ($21) million for the
    comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers, excluding
    Travelers financing and integration costs incurred by the
    Company, contributed $111 million during the first six
    months of 2006 to income (loss) from continuing operations,
    which included $3 million, net of income tax, of net
    investment losses. Excluding the impact of Travelers, income
    (loss) from continuing operations decreased by $96 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from the comparable
    2005 period. Included in this decrease were higher investment
    losses of $66 million, net of income tax. Excluding the
    impact of Travelers and the increase of net investment losses,
    income (loss) from continuing operations decreased by
    $30 million.

The increase in income (loss) from continuing operations was
    primarily attributable to higher net investment income, lower
    integration costs and higher other revenues of
    $104 million, $62 million, and $4 million,
    respectively, all of which were net of income tax. This was
    partially offset by higher interest expense on debt (principally
    associated with the issuance of debt to finance the Travelers
    acquisition), corporate support expenses, interest credited to
    bankholder deposits, policyholder benefits and claims and
    legal-related liabilities of $125 million,
    $111 million, $55 million, $30 million and
    $5 million, respectively, all of which were net of income
    tax. Tax benefits increased by $113 million over the
    comparable 2005 period due to the difference of finalizing the
    Company s 2005 tax return in 2006 when compared to
    finalizing the Company s 2004 tax return in 2005 and the
    difference between the actual and the estimated tax rate
    allocated to the various segments.

Revenues  

Total revenues, excluding net investment gains (losses),
    increased by $363 million, or 48%, to $1,115 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2006 from $752 million
    for the comparable 2005 period. The acquisition of Travelers
    contributed $200 million during the first six months of
    2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding the impact of
    Travelers, revenues increased by $163 million, or 22%, from
    the comparable 2005 period. This increase was primarily
    attributable to increased net investment income of
    $171 million primarily from increases in

112

Table of Contents   

income on fixed maturity securities due to improved yields from
    lengthening of the duration and a higher asset base, and the
    impact of higher short-term interest rates on cash equivalents
    and short-term investments. The increase also resulted from a
    higher asset base invested in mortgage loans on real estate,
    real estate joint ventures, and other limited partnership
    interests and was partially offset by a decline in securities
    lending results and leveraged leases. The remainder of the
    increase was primarily attributable to increased other revenues
    of $5 million, which primarily consisted of increased
    surrender values on corporate owned life insurance policies.
    Also included as a component of total revenues were the
    intersegment eliminations which were offset within total
    expenses.

Expenses  

Total expenses increased by $446 million, or 47%, to
    $1,386 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
    from $940 million for the comparable 2005 period. The
    acquisition of Travelers, excluding Travelers financing and
    integration costs, contributed $59 million during the first
    six months of 2006 to the period over period increase. Excluding
    the impact of Travelers, total expenses increased by
    $387 million, or 41%, for the year ended December 31,
    2006 from the comparable 2005 period.

This increase was primarily attributable to higher interest
    expense of $192 million. The principal reason was a result
    of the issuance of senior notes in 2005, which included
    $119 million of expenses from the financing of the
    acquisition of Travelers. Additionally, as a result of the
    issuance of commercial paper, short-term interest expense
    increased by $67 million. Corporate support expenses were
    higher by $170 million primarily due to higher corporate
    support expenses of $107 million, which included
    advertising,
     start-up 
    costs for new products and information technology costs, a
    $35 million MetLife foundation contribution in the 2006
    period and a $28 million benefit, in the 2005 period,
    associated with the reduction of a previously established real
    estate transfer tax liability related to MLIC s
    demutualization in 2000. As a result of growth in the business
    and higher interest rates, interest credited to bankholder
    deposits increased by $85 million at MetLife Bank.
    Policyholder benefits and claims increased $47 million from
    a 2005 period benefit associated with a reduction of a
    previously established liability for settlement death benefits
    related to the Company s sales practices class action
    settlement recorded in 1999. Legal-related costs were higher by
    $8 million, predominantly from the reduction of previously
    established liabilities related to legal disputes during the
    2005 period. Integration costs were lower by $95 million.
    Also included as a component of total expenses were the
    elimination of intersegment amounts which were offset within
    total revenues.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

The
    Company  

Capital   

RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the
    National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) and the state insurance departments to
    identify companies that merit further regulatory action. RBC is
    based on a formula calculated by applying factors to various
    asset, premium and statutory reserve items. The formula takes
    into account the risk characteristics of the insurer, including
    asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk
    and is calculated on an annual basis. The formula is used as an
    early warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately
    capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory
    action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. These
    rules apply to each of the Holding Company s domestic
    insurance subsidiaries. State insurance laws provide insurance
    regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take
    various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital
    does not exceed certain RBC levels. As of the date of the most
    recent annual statutory financial statements filed with
    insurance regulators, the total adjusted capital of each of
    these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC levels.

Asset/Liability
    Management   

The Company actively manages its assets using an approach that
    balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching,
    liquidity and investment return. The goals of the investment
    process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted
    investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring
    that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and
    duration basis. The asset/liability management process is the
    shared responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the
    Financial Management and Oversight Asset/Liability

113

Table of Contents   

Management Unit, and the operating business segments under the
    supervision of the various product line specific Asset/Liability
    Management Committees ( ALM Committees ). The ALM
    Committees  duties include reviewing and approving target
    portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment
    guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the
    asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and
    asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a
    day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective
    investing activities, implement the goals and objectives
    established by the ALM Committees.

The Company establishes target asset portfolios for each major
    insurance product, which represent the investment strategies
    used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels
    of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review
    of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve
    sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration
    and credit quality. In executing these asset/liability matching
    strategies, management regularly reevaluates the estimates used
    in determining the approximate amounts and timing of payments to
    or on behalf of policyholders for insurance liabilities. Many of
    these estimates are inherently subjective and could impact the
    Company s ability to achieve its asset/liability management
    goals and objectives.

Liquidity   

Liquidity refers to a company s ability to generate
    adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. The Company s
    liquidity position (cash and cash equivalents and short-term
    investments, excluding securities lending) was
    $12.3 billion and $7.7 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Liquidity needs are determined from
    a rolling
     12-month 
    forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and
    maturities are adjusted based on forecast. Cash flow testing and
    stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity. The
    Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to fund its
    cash needs under various scenarios that include the potential
    risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. The
    Company includes provisions limiting withdrawal rights on many
    of its products, including general account institutional pension
    products (generally group annuities, including GICs, and certain
    deposit fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan
    sponsors. Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from
    making withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product.

In the event of significant unanticipated cash requirements
    beyond normal liquidity, the Company has multiple alternatives
    available based on market conditions and the amount and timing
    of the liquidity need. These options include cash flows from
    operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources
    and various credit facilities.

The Company s ability to sell investment assets could be
    limited by accounting rules including rules relating to the
    intent and ability to hold impaired securities until the market
    value of those securities recovers.

In extreme circumstances, all general account assets within a
    statutory legal entity are available to fund any obligation of
    the general account within that legal entity.

A disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding
    Company s access to or cost of liquidity.

Liquidity
    Sources   

Cash Flows from Operations.   The Company s
    principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from
    insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A
    primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is
    the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal.

The Company s principal cash inflows from its investment
    activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from
    maturities and sales of invested assets and investment income.
    The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash
    inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market
    volatilities. The Company closely monitors and manages these
    risks through its credit risk management process.

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments, and marketable fixed maturity and equity
    securities. Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities
    lending activities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company had $188.4 billion and $186.5 billion in
    liquid assets, respectively.

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of both short-term and long-term
    instruments, including repurchase agreements, commercial paper,
    medium- and long-term debt, junior

114

Table of Contents   

subordinated debt securities, shares subject to mandatory
    redemption, capital securities and stockholders  equity.
    The diversity of the Company s funding sources enhances
    funding flexibility, limits dependence on any one source of
    funds and generally lowers the cost of funds.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had outstanding
    $667 million and $1.4 billion in short-term debt,
    respectively, and at December 31, 2007 and 2006, had
    outstanding $9.6 billion and $9.1 billion in long-term
    debt, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company had outstanding $5.7 billion and $850 million
    in collateral financing arrangements, respectively. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had outstanding
    $4.5 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively, in junior
    subordinated debt and $159 million and $278 million,
    respectively, in shares subject to mandatory redemption.

Debt Issuances.   In December 2007, MetLife
    Capital Trust IV ( Trust IV ), a variable
    interest entity ( VIE )  consolidated by the Company,
    issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the
     Trust Securities ) with a face amount of
    $700 million and a discount of $6 million
    ($694 million). The Trust Securities will be exchanged
    into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated
    debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption
    date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time
    upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the
    securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for
    junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment. The final
    maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2067. The
    Holding Company may cause the redemption of the
    Trust Securities or debentures (i) in whole or in
    part, at any time on or after December 15, 2032 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or
    in part, prior to December 15, 2032 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest on the
    Trust Securities or debentures is payable semi-annually at
    a fixed rate of 7.875% up to, but not including,
    December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. In the
    event the Trust Securities or debentures are not redeemed
    on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue
    at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten
    years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If
    interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the
    Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of
    its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the
    Trust Securities, the Holding Company entered into a
    replacement capital covenant ( RCC ). As a part of the
    RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem,
    or purchase the debentures on or before December 15, 2057,
    unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds
    from the sale of specified capital securities. The RCC will
    terminate upon the occurrence of certain events, including an
    acceleration of the debentures due to the occurrence of an event
    of default. The RCC is not intended for the benefit of holders
    of the debentures and may not be enforced by them. The RCC is
    for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated
    series of its indebtedness (which will initially be its
    5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding
    Company also entered into a replacement capital obligation which
    will commence in 2037 and under which the Holding Company must
    use reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital
    through the issuance of certain qualifying capital securities.

In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block
    liabilities to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston
    ( MRC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In
    connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors
    placed by an unaffiliated financial institution,
    $2.5 billion of
     35-year 
    surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the
    assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 55 basis points, payable quarterly. The ability
    of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus
    notes is contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval.
    Simultaneous with issuing the surplus notes, the Holding Company
    entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated financial
    institution, under which the Holding Company is entitled to the
    interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this
    agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to
    any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in
    connection with any early termination of this agreement. A
    majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus notes
    were placed in trust to support MRC s statutory obligations
    associated with the assumed closed block liabilities. The trust
    is a VIE which is consolidated

115

Table of Contents   

by the Company. At December 31, 2007, the Company held
    assets in trust of $1.9 billion associated with the
    transaction.

In May 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Reinsurance Company
    of South Carolina ( MRSC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary
    of the Company, entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial
    institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory
    reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations
    under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory
    reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees
    and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies
    Model Regulation (commonly referred to as
     Regulation A-XXX). 
    At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon
    under the collateral financing arrangement. The collateral
    financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of the
    Holding Company and the unaffiliated financial institution on
    each anniversary of the closing. Proceeds from the collateral
    financing arrangement were placed in trust to support
    MRSC s statutory obligations associated with the
    reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The trust is a VIE which is
    consolidated by the Company. The unaffiliated financial
    institution is entitled to the return on the investment
    portfolio held by the trust. Simultaneous with entering into the
    collateral financing arrangement, the Holding Company entered
    into an agreement with the same unaffiliated financial
    institution under which the Holding Company is entitled to the
    return on the investment portfolio held by the trust established
    in connection with this collateral financing arrangement in
    exchange for the payment of a stated rate of return to the
    unaffiliated financial institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 70 basis points, payable quarterly. The Holding
    Company may also be required to make payments to the
    unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trust,
    related to any decline in the market value of the assets held by
    the trust, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early
    termination of the collateral financing arrangement. At
    December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of
    $2.3 billion associated with this transaction.

In March 2007, RGA issued $300 million of
     10-year 
    senior notes with a fixed rate of 5.625%, payable semiannually.
    RGA used $50 million of the net proceeds of the offering to
    repay existing debt during the year ended December 31, 2007.

In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated
    debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The
    debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15,
    2036; the final maturity of the debentures is December 15,
    2066. The Holding Company may redeem the debentures (i) in
    whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031
    at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to
    the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances,
    in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2031 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest is
    payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.40% up to, but not
    including, December 15, 2036, the scheduled redemption
    date. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before
    the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual
    rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds
    during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for
    more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be
    required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or
    warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In
    connection with the issuance of the debentures, the Holding
    Company entered into a RCC. As part of the RCC, the Holding
    Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the
    debentures on or before December 15, 2056, unless, subject
    to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale
    of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the
    occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the
    debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC
    is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and
    may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of
    holders of one or more other designated series of its
    indebtedness (which will initially be its 5.70% senior
    notes due June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered
    into a replacement capital obligation which will commence in
    2036 and under which the Holding Company must use reasonable
    commercial efforts to raise replacement capital through the
    issuance of certain qualifying capital securities.

In June 2006, Timberlake Financial L.L.C., ( Timberlake
    Financial ), a subsidiary of RGA, completed an offering of
    $850 million of Series A Floating Rate Insured Notes
    due June 2036 in a private placement. Interest on the notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     1-month 
    LIBOR plus 29 basis points payable monthly. The payment of
    interest and principal on the notes is insured through a
    financial guaranty insurance policy with a third party. The
    notes represent senior, secured indebtedness of Timberlake
    Financial with no recourse to RGA or its other subsidiaries.

116

Table of Contents   

Up to $150 million of additional notes may be offered in
    the future. In order to make payments of principal and interest
    on the notes, Timberlake Financial will rely upon the receipt of
    interest and principal payments on surplus note and dividend
    payments from its wholly-owned subsidiary, Timberlake
    Reinsurance Company II ( Timberlake Re ), a South
    Carolina captive insurance company. The ability of Timberlake Re
    to make interest and principal payments on the surplus note and
    dividend payments to Timberlake Financial is contingent upon
    South Carolina regulatory approval and the performance of
    specified term life insurance policies with guaranteed level
    premiums retroceded by RGA s subsidiary, RGA Reinsurance
    Company ( RGA Reinsurance ), to Timberlake Re.
    Proceeds from the offering of the notes, along with a
    $113 million direct investment by RGA, collateralize the
    notes and are not available to satisfy the general obligations
    of RGA or the Company. Most of these assets were placed in a
    trust and provide long-term collateral as support for statutory
    reserves required by U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model
    Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation XXX) on term
    life insurance policies with guaranteed level premium periods
    reinsured by RGA Reinsurance. The trust is consolidated by
    Timberlake Re which in-turn is consolidated by Timberlake
    Financial. Timberlake Financial is considered to be a VIE and
    RGA is considered to be the primary beneficiary. As such, the
    results of Timberlake Financial have been consolidated by RGA
    and ultimately by the Company. At December 31, 2007, the
    Company held assets in trust of $899 million associated
    with the transaction. In addition the Company held
    $50 million in custody as of December 31, 2007.

MetLife Bank has entered into several repurchase agreements with
    the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York (the  FHLB of
    NY ) whereby MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements
    in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been
    granted a blanket lien on MetLife Bank s residential
    mortgages and mortgage-backed securities to collateralize
    MetLife Bank s obligations under the repurchase agreements.
    The repurchase agreements and the related security agreement
    represented by this blanket lien provide that upon any event of
    default by MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is
    limited to the amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the
    outstanding repurchase agreements. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, MetLife Bank received
    advances totaling $390 million, $260 million and
    $775 million, respectively, from the FHLB of NY, which were
    included in long-term debt. MetLife Bank also made repayments of
    $175 million, $117 million and $25 million to the
    FHLB of NY during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. The amount of the Company s
    liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was
    $1.2 billion and $998 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in long-term debt.

In December 2005, RGA issued junior subordinated debentures with
    a face amount of $400 million. Interest is payable
    semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.75% up to but not including
    the scheduled redemption date, December 15, 2015. The
    debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any
    time on or after December 15, 2015 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in whole or in part, prior to
    December 15, 2015 at their principal amount plus accrued
    and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a
    make-whole price. In the event the debentures are not redeemed
    on or before the scheduled redemption date of December 15,
    2015, interest on these debentures will accrue at an annual rate
    of  3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.665%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The final maturity of the debentures is
    December 15, 2065. RGA has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    debentures for a period up to ten years. Upon an optional or
    mandatory deferral of interest payments, RGA is generally not
    permitted to pay common stock dividends or make payments of
    interest or principal on securities which rank equal or junior
    to the subordinated debentures, until the accrued and unpaid
    interest on the subordinated debentures is paid. Interest
    compounds during periods of deferral.

In June 2005, the Company issued, in connection with the common
    equity units more fully described in    Liquidity
    and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company   Liquidity Sources   Common Equity
    Units , $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and
    $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated
    debentures due no later than February 15, 2039 and
    February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of
    $2,134 million.

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds
    sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal
    amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a
    discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million
    at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million
    pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior
    notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States
    in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ).

117

Table of Contents   

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1.0 billion
    aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due
    June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million
    ($997.3 million), and $1.0 billion aggregate principal
    amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a
    discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million).

MetLife Funding, Inc. ( MetLife Funding ), a
    subsidiary of MLIC, serves as a centralized finance unit for the
    Company. Pursuant to a support agreement, MLIC has agreed to
    cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net worth of at least
    one dollar. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, MetLife Funding had a
    tangible net worth of $12 million and $11 million,
    respectively. MetLife Funding raises cash from various funding
    sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through MetLife
    Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to the Holding
    Company, MLIC and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its
    funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and
    liquidity of MLIC and other affiliated companies. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, MetLife Funding had total
    outstanding liabilities, including accrued interest payable, of
    $358 million and $840 million, respectively,
    consisting primarily of commercial paper.

Credit Facilities.   The Company maintains
    committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating
    $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2007. When drawn upon,
    these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance
    with the respective agreements. The facilities can be used for
    general corporate purposes and at December 31, 2007,
    $3.0 billion of the facilities also served as
     back-up 
    lines of credit for the Company s commercial paper programs.

Information on these credit facilities as of December 31,
    2007 is as follows:

(1)  

In June 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding entered
    into a $3.0 billion credit agreement with various financial
    institutions, the proceeds of which are available to be used for
    general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper
    programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All
    borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June
    2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination
    may remain outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the
    lenders under this facility may agree to extend the term of all
    or part of the facility to no later than June 2014, except that
    letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain
    outstanding until June 2015. The $1.5 billion credit
    agreement, with an April 2009 expiration, and the
    $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2010
    expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and replaced by
    the aforementioned facility. 

(2)  

In July 2007, the facility was extended for one year to July
    2008. 

(3)  

In September 2007, RGA and certain of its subsidiaries entered
    into a credit agreement with various financial institutions.
    Under the credit agreement, RGA may borrow and obtain letters of
    credit for general corporate purposes for its own account or for
    the account of its subsidiaries with an overall credit facility
    amount of up to $750 million. The credit agreement replaced
    a former credit agreement in the amount of $600 million
    which was scheduled to expire on September 29, 2010. 

118

Table of Contents   

Committed Facilities.   Information on committed
    facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:

(1)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

As described under    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Debt Issuances , RGA may, at its
    option, offer up to $150 million of additional notes under
    this facility in the future. 

(4)  

In May 2007, MRSC terminated the $2.0 billion amended and
    restated five-year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement
    entered into among the Holding Company, MRSC and various
    financial institutions on April 25, 2005. In its place the
    Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described under
     Liquidity Sources   Debt Issuances , which
    may be extended by agreement of the Company and the financial
    institution on each anniversary of the closing of the facility
    for an additional one-year period. At December 31, 2007,
    $2.4 billion had been drawn upon under the collateral
    financing arrangement. 

(5)  

In December 2007, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd.
    ( Exeter ) terminated four letters of credit, with
    expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, that were
    issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution in an aggregate amount of
    $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as
    collateral for Exeter s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement that was recaptured by MetLife Investors USA Insurance
    Company ( MLI-USA ) in December 2007. MLI-USA
    immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance agreement
    with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont ( MRV ).
    To collateralize its reinsurance obligations, MRV and the
    Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2007,
    the Company had outstanding $4.2 billion in letters of
    credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned
    credit facilities, from various financial institutions, of which
    $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion were part of committed
    and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated
    with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire
    unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the
    Company s actual future cash funding requirements.

Liquidity
    Uses   

Debt Repayments.   On October 31, 2007, the
    Company redeemed $125 million of 8.525% GenAmerica Capital
    I Capital Securities which were due to mature on June 30,
    2027. As a result of this repayment, the Company recognized
    additional interest expense of $10 million.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, RGA repaid
    $50 million of long-term debt using the proceeds from its
    March 2007
     10-year 
    senior notes offering. See    Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Debt Issuances  for further information.

119

Table of Contents   

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    MetLife Bank made repayments of $175 million,
    $117 million and $25 million, respectively, to the
    FHLB of NY. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Debt Issuances  for further information.

The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior
    note which matured in December 2006 and a $1,006 million
    3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005.RGA repaid a
    $100 million 7.25% senior note which matured in April
    2006.

MLIC repaid a $250 million 7% surplus note which matured on
    November 1, 2005.

Insurance Liabilities.   The Company s
    principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities
    associated with its various life insurance, property and
    casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses
    and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its
    outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its
    insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under
    the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy
    surrenders, withdrawals and loans.

Investment and Other.   Additional cash outflows
    include those related to obligations of securities lending
    activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and
    joint ventures, as well as litigation-related liabilities.

The following table summarizes the Company s major
    contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007:

(1)  

Future policyholder benefits include liabilities related to
    traditional whole life policies, term life policies, closeout
    and other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, MTF
    agreements, single premium immediate annuities, long-term
    disability policies, individual disability income policies, LTC
    policies and property and casualty contracts. 

Included within future policyholder benefits are contracts where
    the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do
    so until the occurrence of a specific event such as death as
    well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has
    been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment
    triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract,
    is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated
    the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on
    historical experience as well as its expectation of future
    payment patterns. 

120

Table of Contents   

Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not
    contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest
    reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of
    $1.1 billion have been excluded from amounts presented in
    the table above. 

Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to
    property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash
    payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions
    related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions
    related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability
    terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case
    reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities
    associated with property and casualty contracts of
    $1.6 billion have been included using an estimate of the
    ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon
    historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid
    under property and casualty contracts is not determined until
    the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may
    vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation
    presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not
    reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in
    the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of
    estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and
    gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years
    category displays estimated payments due for periods extending
    for more than 100 years from the present date. 

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $288.8 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $132.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the
    liabilities were initially established and the current date. 

For the majority of the Company s insurance operations,
    estimated contractual obligations for future policyholder
    benefits and policyholder account balance liabilities as
    presented in the table above are derived from the annual asset
    adequacy analysis used to develop actuarial opinions of
    statutory reserve adequacy for state regulatory purposes. These
    cash flows are materially representative of the cash flows under
    generally accepted accounting principles. 

Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly
    from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance
    sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table
    above due to differences between actual experience and the
    assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and
    the estimation of these cash payments. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Asset/Liability Management.  

(2)  

Policyholder account balances include liabilities related to
    conventional guaranteed investment contracts, guaranteed
    investment contracts associated with formal offering programs,
    funding agreements, individual and group annuities, total
    control accounts, bank deposits, individual and group universal
    life, variable universal life and company-owned life insurance. 

Included within policyholder account balances are contracts
    where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed
    and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the
    Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so,
    as well as those where the timing of the payments has been
    determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment
    obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering
    event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy
    or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The
    Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to
    these contracts based on historical experience as well as its
    expectation of future payment patterns. 

Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting
    adjustments of $794 million have been excluded from amounts
    presented in the table above as they represent an accounting
    convention and not a contractual obligation. 

Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated
    cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to
    interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of
    future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled
    or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges;
    annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans
    and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective
    product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented
    net of estimated future premiums on policies  

121

Table of Contents   

currently in-force and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For
    obligations denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments
    have been estimated using current spot rates. 

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $212.0 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $137.3 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially
    established and the current date. See also comments under
    footnote 1 regarding the source and uncertainties associated
    with the estimation of the contractual obligations related to
    future policyholder benefits and policyholder account balances. 

(3)  

Other policyholder liabilities is comprised of other
    policyholder funds, policyholder dividends payable and the
    policyholder dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table
    above related to these liabilities are as follows: 

(a)  

Other policyholder funds includes liabilities for incurred but
    not reported claims and claims payable on group term life,
    long-term disability, LTC and dental; policyholder dividends
    left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and unpaid
    related primarily to traditional life and group life and health;
    and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to
    unearned revenue of $2.0 billion have been excluded from
    the cash payments presented in the table above because they
    reflect an accounting convention and not a contractual
    obligation. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on
    deposit, and those items excluded as noted in the preceding
    sentence, the contractual obligation presented in the table
    above related to other policyholder funds is equal to the
    liability reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. Such
    amounts are reported in the less than one year category due to
    the short-term nature of the liabilities. Contractual
    obligations on policyholder dividends left on deposit are
    projected based on assumptions of policyholder withdrawal
    activity. 

(b)  

Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related
    to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation
    related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the
    table above in the less than one year category at the amount of
    the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheet. 

(c)  

The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is described
    in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the ultimate
    policyholder dividend obligation is subject to significant
    uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder dividend
    obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the
    performance of the closed block, management has reflected the
    obligation at the amount of the liability presented in the
    consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years category.
    This was done to reflect the long-duration of the liability and
    the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment. 

(4)  

Amounts presented in the table above for short-term debt,
    long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements, junior
    subordinated debt securities and shares subject to mandatory
    redemption differ from the balances presented on the
    consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented in the table
    above do not include premiums or discounts upon issuance or
    purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The amounts
    presented above also include interest on such obligations as
    described below. 

Short-term debt consists principally of
     90-day 
    commercial paper, with a remaining maturity of 54 days, and
    carries a variable rate of interest. The contractual obligation
    for short-term debt presented in the table above represents the
    amounts due upon maturity of the commercial paper plus the
    related variable interest which is calculated using the
    prevailing rates at December 31, 2007 through the date of
    maturity without consideration of any further issuances of
    commercial paper upon maturity of the amounts outstanding at
    December 31, 2007. 

Long-term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest
    rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed
    rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations
    through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt is computed
    using prevailing rates at December 31, 2007 and, as such,
    does not consider the impact of future rate movements. 

Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and
    variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates.
    Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate
    on the obligations through maturity. Interest on variable rate
    debt is computed using prevailing rates at December 31,
    2007 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate
    movements. 

122

Table of Contents   

Junior subordinated debt bears interest at fixed interest rates
    through their respective redemption dates. Interest was computed
    using the stated rate on the obligation through the scheduled
    redemption date as it is the Company s expectation that the
    debt will be redeemed at that time. Inclusion of interest
    payments on junior subordinated debt through the final maturity
    date would increase the contractual obligation by
    $6.2 billion. 

Shares subject to mandatory redemption bear interest at fixed
    interest rates through their respective mandatory redemption
    dates. Interest on shares subject to mandatory redemption was
    computed using the stated fixed rate on the obligation through
    maturity. 

Long-term debt also includes payments under capital lease
    obligations of $13 million, $15 million,
    $3 million and $24 million, in the less than one year,
    one to three years, three to five years and more than five years
    categories, respectively. 

(5)  

The Company has accepted cash collateral in connection with
    securities lending and derivative transactions. As the
    securities lending transactions expire within the next year or
    the timing of the return of the collateral is uncertain, the
    return of the collateral has been included in the less than one
    year category in the table above. The Company also holds
    non-cash collateral, which is not reflected as a liability in
    the consolidated balance sheet, of $718 million as of
    December 31, 2007. 

(6)  

The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loans,
    partnerships, bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private
    corporate bond investments. In the table above, the timing of
    the funding of mortgage loans and private corporate bond
    investments is based on the expiration date of the commitment.
    As it relates to commitments to lend funds to partnerships and
    under bank credit facilities, the Company anticipates that these
    amounts could be invested any time over the next five years;
    however, as the timing of the fulfillment of the obligation
    cannot be predicted, such obligations are presented in the less
    than one year category in the table above. Commitments to fund
    bridge loans are short-term obligations and, as a result, are
    presented in the less than one year category in the table above.
    See    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

(7)  

As a lessee, the Company has various operating leases, primarily
    for office space. Contractual provisions exist that could
    increase or accelerate those leases obligations presented,
    including various leases with early buyouts
     and/or 
    escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions
    would not be material to the Company s financial position
    or results of operations. See    Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements.  

(8)  

Other includes those other liability balances which represent
    contractual obligations, as well as other miscellaneous
    contractual obligations of $32 million not included
    elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the
    table above is principally comprised of amounts due under
    reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities
    purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued
    interest on debt obligations, fair value of derivative
    obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty
    liabilities, the fair value of forward stock purchase contracts,
    as well as general accruals and accounts payable due under
    contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other
    liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included
    within the less than one year category. 

The other liabilities presented in the table above differs from
    the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by
    $6.1 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such
    as minority interests, legal liabilities, pension and
    postretirement benefit obligations, taxes due other than income
    tax, unrecognized tax benefits and related accrued interest,
    accrued severance and employee incentive compensation and other
    liabilities such as deferred gains and losses. Such items have
    been excluded from the table above as they represent accounting
    conventions or are not liabilities due under contractual
    obligations. 

The net funded status of the Company s pension and other
    postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above.
    Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary
    contributions of $150 million to be made by the Company to
    the pension plan in 2008 and the discretionary contributions of
    $116 million, based on the next year s expected gross
    benefit payments to participants, to be made by the Company to
    the postretirement benefit plans during 2008. Virtually all
    contributions to the pension and postretirement benefit plans
    are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the Holding Company
    with little impact on the Holding Company s cash flows. 

Excluded from the table above are deferred income tax
    liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits, and accrued interest of
    $2.5 billion, $1.0 billion, and $252 million,
    respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine
    the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also
    excluded from the table. 

123

Table of Contents   

See also    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above.
    Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of
    the funds that are separately administered by the Company.
    Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company,
    bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account
    liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to the
    claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net
    deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized
    capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not
    reflected in the consolidated statements of income. The separate
    account liabilities will be fully funded by cash flows from the
    separate account assets.

The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and
    services in the normal course of business; however, these
    purchase obligations are not material to its consolidated
    results of operations or financial position as of
    December 31, 2007.

Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services
    it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to
    insurance, reinsurance, loans, and capitalization. Intercompany
    transactions have appropriately been eliminated in
    consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance
    subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
    appropriate departments of insurance as required.

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company and
    several of its subsidiaries (each, an  Obligor ) are
    parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and
    contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of
    the Holding Company and a corporation in which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, each
    Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to
    cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels,
    has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to
    provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies,
    reinsurance for such entity s insurance liabilities or for
    certain policies reinsured by such entity. Management does not
    anticipate that these arrangements will place any significant
    demands upon the Company s liquidity resources.

Litigation.   Putative or certified class action
    litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments
    against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere
    herein and those otherwise provided for in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of
    the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in
    connection with its activities as an insurer, employer,
    investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state
    insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state
    authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations
    concerning the Company s compliance with applicable
    insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome
    of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere
    herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to herein, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcome of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Other.   Based on management s analysis of
    its expected cash inflows from operating activities, the
    dividends it receives from subsidiaries, including MLIC, that
    are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory
    approval and its portfolio of liquid assets and other
    anticipated cash flows, management believes there will be
    sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to make payments on
    debt, make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred
    stock, pay all operating expenses, and meet its cash needs. The
    nature of the Company s diverse product portfolio and
    customer base lessens the likelihood that normal operations will
    result in any significant strain on liquidity.

Consolidated Cash Flows.   Net cash provided by
    operating activities increased by $3.4 billion to
    $10.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 as
    compared to $6.6 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 primarily due to higher net investment
    income and premiums, fees and other revenues.

124

Table of Contents   

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by
    $1.4 billion to $6.6 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 as compared to $8.0 billion for the
    comparable 2005 period. The decrease in operating cash flows was
    primarily due to reinsurance receivables related to the sale of
    certain small market recordkeeping businesses. Partially
    offsetting the decrease was an increase in operating cash flows
    in 2006 over the comparable 2005 period primarily attributable
    to the acquisition of Travelers.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $3.9 billion
    and $15.4 billion for the years ended December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities decreased by $11.5 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the prior year.
    Net cash provided by financing activities decreased primarily as
    a result of a decrease of $13.0 billion in the amount of
    securities lending cash collateral received in connection with
    the Company s securities lending program and other cash
    collateral, $1.2 billion of an increase in shares acquired
    under the Company s common stock repurchase program, a
    decrease in short-term debt borrowings of $0.8 billion and
    a decrease of $0.6 billion in net cash provided by
    policyholder account balances. In addition, net cash provided by
    financing activities was $0.5 billion lower than the
    comparable 2006 period due to the issuance of $0.7 billion
    of junior subordinated debt securities in 2007 as compared to
    $1.2 billion issued in 2006. These decreases were partially
    offset by an increase in the issuance of collateral financing
    arrangements of $4.0 billion and an increase in net
    issuances versus net repayments of long-term debt of
    $0.9 billion.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $15.4 billion
    and $14.5 billion for the years ended December 31,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities increased by $0.9 billion primarily as
    a result of an increase of $7.2 billion in the amount of
    securities lending cash collateral received in connection with
    the securities lending program, a decrease in long-term debt
    repayments of $0.7 billion, an increase in the issuance of
    collateral financing arrangements of $0.9 billion and an
    increase in short-term debt borrowings of $0.1 billion.
    Such increases were offset by decreases in financing cash flows
    resulting from a decrease in issuance of preferred stock, junior
    subordinated debt securities, and long-term debt aggregating
    $6.6 billion which were principally used to finance the
    acquisition of Travelers in 2005, combined with a decrease of
    $0.9 billion associated with a decrease in net policyholder
    account balance deposits and an increase of $0.5 billion of
    shares acquired under the Company s common stock repurchase
    program which was resumed in the fourth quarter of 2006.

Net cash used in investing activities was $10.6 billion and
    $18.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing
    activities decreased by $8.3 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2007 as compared to prior year. In the current
    year, cash available for the purchase of invested assets
    decreased by $11.5 billion as a result of the reduction in
    cash provided by financing activities discussed above. Also,
    partially offsetting this decrease was an increase of
    $3.4 billion in net cash provided by operating activities
    discussed above. The lower amount of cash available for
    investing activities resulted in a decrease in net purchases of
    fixed maturity securities of $15.9 billion, other invested
    assets of $1.4 billion, and a decrease in net origination
    of mortgage and consumer loans of $0.6 billion. This was
    partially offset by increases in the net purchases of real
    estate and real estate joint ventures of $6.3 billion,
    equity securities of $1.4 billion and other limited
    partnership interests of $0.8 billion. Also, there was a
    decrease in cash provided by short-term investments of
    $0.5 billion. In addition, the 2007 period includes the
    sale of MetLife Australia s annuities and pension
    businesses and the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in
    MetLife Fubon of $0.7 billion, while the 2006 period
    includes additional consideration paid related to purchases of
    businesses $0.1 billion.

Net cash used in investing activities was $18.9 billion and
    $22.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing
    activities decreased by $3.7 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2006 as compared to prior year. Net cash used
    in investing activities in the prior year included cash used to
    acquire Travelers of $11.0 billion, less cash acquired of
    $0.9 billion for a net total cash paid of
    $10.1 billion, which was funded by $6.8 billion in
    securities issuances and $4.2 billion of cash provided by
    operations and the sale of invested assets. During the current
    year, cash available for investment as a result of cash
    collateral received in connection with the securities lending
    program increased by $7.2 billion. Cash available from
    operations and available for investment decreased by
    $1.4 billion. Cash available for the purchase of invested
    assets increased by $4.3 billion as a result of the
    increase in securities lending activities of $7.2 billion
    as well as a decrease in the cash required for acquisitions of
    $4.2 billion, offset by the decrease in issuance of
    preferred stock, junior subordinated debt securities, and
    long-term debt aggregating $6.6 billion as well as the
    decrease in cash flow from operations of $1.4 billion. Cash
    available for investing activities was used to increase
    purchases of fixed maturity

125

Table of Contents   

securities, other invested assets, and short-term investments,
    as well as increase the origination of mortgage and consumer
    loans and decrease net sales of real estate and real estate
    joint ventures and equity securities.

The
    Holding Company  

Capital   

Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and
    Financial Holding Companies  
    Capital.   The Holding Company and its insured
    depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank, are subject to
    risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued by the federal
    banking regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding
    companies. The federal banking regulatory agencies are required
    by law to take specific prompt corrective actions with respect
    to institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. As
    of their most recently filed reports with the federal banking
    regulatory agencies, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank met the
    minimum capital standards as per federal banking regulatory
    agencies with all of MetLife Bank s risk-based and leverage
    capital ratios meeting the federal banking regulatory
    agencies   well capitalized  standards and all of
    MetLife, Inc. s risk-based and leverage capital ratios
    meeting the  adequately capitalized  standards.

The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory
    requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and
    MetLife Bank:

MetLife,
    Inc. 
    RBC Ratios   Bank Holding Company 
    December 31,  

MetLife
    Bank 
    RBC Ratios   Bank 
    December 31,  

Liquidity   

Liquidity is managed to preserve stable, reliable and
    cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and future
    financial obligations and is provided by a variety of sources,
    including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified mix of
    short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale
    financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed
    credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant
    in the global financial markets through which it obtains a
    significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as
    cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of the
    Holding Company s liquidity management. Decisions to access
    these markets are based upon relative costs, prospective views
    of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile. A
    disruption in the financial markets could limit the Holding
    Company s access to liquidity.

The Holding Company s ability to maintain regular access to
    competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current
    high credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies.
    Management views its capital ratios, credit quality, stable and
    diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity sources and its
    liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to retaining high
    credit ratings.

126

Table of Contents   

Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity
    risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid
    asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow
    obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and
    debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the
    Holding Company s liquidity.

Liquidity
    Sources   

Dividends.   The primary source of the Holding
    Company s liquidity is dividends it receives from its
    insurance subsidiaries. The Holding Company s insurance
    subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the
    payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their
    respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the surplus to
    policyholders as of the immediately preceding calendar year and
    statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding
    calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as prescribed by
    insurance regulators of various states in which the Company
    conducts business, differ in certain respects from accounting
    principles used in financial statements prepared in conformity
    with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the treatment
    of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required investment
    reserves, reserve calculation assumptions, goodwill and surplus
    notes. Management of the Holding Company cannot provide
    assurances that the Holding Company s insurance
    subsidiaries will have statutory earnings to support payment of
    dividends to the Holding Company in an amount sufficient to fund
    its cash requirements and pay cash dividends and that the
    applicable insurance departments will not disapprove any
    dividends that such insurance subsidiaries must submit for
    approval.

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2008 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified
    date during 2008, some or all of such dividends may require
    regulatory approval. 

(2)  

Includes amounts paid including those requiring regulatory
    approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

Includes a return of capital of $259 million. 

(5)  

Includes a return of capital of $404 million as approved by
    the applicable insurance department, of which $350 million
    was paid to the Holding Company. 

(6)  

This dividend reflects the proceeds associated with the sale of
    Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town properties to be used
    for general corporate purposes. 

For the year ended December 31, 2007, $190 million in
    dividends from other subsidiaries were paid, of which
    $176 million were returns of capital, to the Holding
    Company. MetLife Mexico S.A. paid $116 million in dividends
    to the Holding Company for the year ended December 31,
    2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006, there were
    returns of capital of $154 million to the Holding Company
    from other subsidiaries.

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the Holding
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and marketable fixed maturity securities.
    Liquid assets exclude assets relating to securities lending
    activities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding
    Company had $2.3 billion and $3.9 billion in liquid
    assets, respectively.

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of both short-term and long-term
    instruments, commercial paper, medium- and long-term debt,
    junior subordinated debt securities, collateral financing
    arrangements, capital securities and stockholders  equity.
    The diversity of the Holding Company s funding sources
    enhances funding flexibility and limits dependence on any one
    source of funds and generally lowers

127

Table of Contents   

the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding Company s
    liquidity include programs for short- and long-term borrowing,
    as needed.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company had
    $310 million and $616 million in short-term debt
    outstanding, respectively. At both December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Holding Company had $7.0 billion of unaffiliated
    long-term debt outstanding. At both December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Holding Company had $500 million of affiliated
    long-term debt outstanding. At both December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Holding Company had $3.4 billion of junior
    subordinated debt securities outstanding. At December 31,
    2007, the Holding Company had $2.4 billion in collateral
    financing arrangements outstanding. The Holding Company did not
    have any collateral financing arrangements outstanding at
    December 31, 2006.

In November 2007, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration
    statement (the  2007 Registration Statement ) with the
    SEC, which was automatically effective upon filing, in
    accordance with SEC rules which also allow for pay-as-you-go
    fees and the ability to add securities by filing automatically
    effective amendment for companies, such as the Holding Company,
    which qualify as  Well-Known Seasoned Issuers.  The
    2007 Registration Statement registered an unlimited amount of
    debt and equity securities and supersedes the shelf registration
    statement that the Holding Company filed in April 2005. The
    terms of any offering will be established at the time of the
    offering.

Debt Issuances.   As described more fully in
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity Sources   Debt
    Issuances , during December 2007, Trust IV issued
    Trust Securities with a face amount of $700 million
    and a discount of $6 million ($694 million) and a
    fixed rate of interest of 7.875% up to, but not including,
    December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. The
    beneficial interest of Trust IV held by the Holding Company
    is not represented by an investment in Trust IV but rather
    by a financing agreement between the Holding Company and
    Trust IV. The assets of Trust IV are $700 million
    of 7.375% surplus notes of MLIC, which are scheduled to mature
    December 15, 2037, and rights under the financing
    agreement. Under the financing agreement, the Holding Company
    has the obligation to make payments (i) semiannually at a
    fixed rate of 0.50% of the surplus notes outstanding and owned
    by Trust IV or if greater (ii) equal to the difference
    between the Trust Securities interest payment and the
    interest received by Trust IV on the surplus notes. The
    ability of MLIC to make interest and principal payments on the
    surplus notes to the Holding Company is contingent upon
    regulatory approval. The Trust Securities, will be
    exchanged into a like amount of Holding Company junior
    subordinated debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled
    redemption date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at
    any time upon the Holding Company exercising its option to
    redeem the securities. The Trust Securities will be
    exchanged for junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment
    and the Holding Company is ultimately responsible for repayment
    of the junior subordinated debentures. The Holding
    Company s other rights and obligations as it relates to the
    deferral of interest, redemption, replacement capital obligation
    and replacement capital covenant associated with the issuance of
    the Trust Securities are more fully described in
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity Sources   Debt
    Issuances. 

As described more fully in    Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Debt Issuances :

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which
    the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on
    the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this
    agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to
    any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in
    connection with any early termination of this agreement. The
    Holding Company s net cost of 57 basis points has been
    allocated to MRC. For the year ended December 31, 2007,
    this amount was immaterial.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into
    an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under
    which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the
    investment portfolio held by the trust established in connection
    with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the
    payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 70 basis

128

Table of Contents   

points, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may also be
    required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trust, related to any decline
    in the market value of the assets held by the trust, as well as
    amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the
    collateral financing arrangement. As a result of this agreement,
    the Holding Company effectively assumed the $2.4 billion
    liability under the collateral financing arrangement along with
    a beneficial interest in the trust holding the associated
    assets. The Holding Company simultaneously contributed to MRSC
    its beneficial interest in the trust, along with any return to
    be received on the investment portfolio held by the trust. The
    Holding Company allocates the financing costs associated with
    the collateral financing arrangement to MRSC.

In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated
    debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity Sources   Debt
    Issuances  for further information.

In September 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million
    of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 6.07%
    maturing in 2016.

In March 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of
    affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.70%
    maturing in 2016.

In December 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million
    of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.24%
    maturing in 2015.

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1.0 billion
    aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due
    June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million
    ($997.3 million), and $1.0 billion aggregate principal
    amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15, 2035 at a
    discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million).

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds
    sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal
    amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a
    discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million
    at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million
    pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). These notes
    were initially offered and sold outside the United States in
    reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act.

The following table summarizes the Holding Company s
    outstanding senior notes issuances, excluding any premium or
    discount:

(1)  

This amount represents the translation of pounds sterling into
    U.S. dollars using the noon buying rate on December 31,
    2007 of $1.9843 as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York. 

See also    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Common Equity Units  for a description
    of $2,134 million of junior subordinated debt securities
    issued in connection with the issuance of common equity units.

Preferred Stock.   During the year ended
    December 31, 2007, the Holding Company issued no new
    preferred stock.

129

Table of Contents   

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 24 million shares
    of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A
    (the  Series A preferred shares ) with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million.

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 60 million shares
    of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the
     Series B preferred shares,  together with the
    Series A preferred shares, collectively, the
     Preferred Shares ) with a $0.01 par value per
    share, and a liquidation preference of $25 per share for
    aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion.

The Preferred Shares rank senior to the common stock with
    respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on the
    Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the Preferred
    Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments only when,
    as and if declared by the Holding Company s Board of
    Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board. If
    dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares,
    they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of
    the greater of: (i) 1.00% above
     3-month 
    LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or
    (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B
    preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an
    annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that
    dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment
    on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to
    accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the
    dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to
    pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not
    dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends
    may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Company s
    common stock   or any other securities ranking junior
    to the Preferred Shares   unless the full dividends
    for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred
    Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or
    provided for.

The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on
    the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital
    adequacy, net income and shareholders  equity levels. In
    addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Holding
    Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn
    sufficient operating income.

The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain
    circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an
    equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or
    not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the
    holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with
    respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding
    Company.

The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory
    redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or
    similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not
    prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date,
    subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be
    redeemable at the Holding Company s option in whole or in
    part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus
    declared and unpaid dividends.

See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    Uses   Dividends  for dividends paid on the
    Company s preferred stock.

Common Equity Units.   In connection with
    financing the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005, the
    Holding Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375%
    common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a
    registered public offering on June 21, 2005.

Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $25 per
    unit and consists of:

a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership
    interest in a series A trust preferred security of MetLife
    Capital Trust II ( Series A Trust ), with an
    initial liquidation amount of $1,000.

a 1/80, or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership
    interest in a series B trust preferred security of MetLife
    Capital Trust III ( Series B Trust  and,
    together with the Series A Trust, the  Capital
    Trusts ), with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000.

a stock purchase contract under which the holder of the common
    equity unit will purchase and the Holding Company will sell, on
    each of the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock
    purchase date, a variable number of shares of the Holding
    Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a
    purchase price of $12.50.

130

Table of Contents   

The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82%
    Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior
    subordinated debt securities due no later than February 15,
    2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of
    $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in
    aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred
    securities by the Capital Trusts and $64 million in trust
    common securities issued equally by the Capital Trusts. The
    common and preferred securities of the Capital Trusts, totaling
    $2,134 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership
    interests in the assets of the Capital Trusts, have no stated
    maturity and must be redeemed upon maturity of the corresponding
    series of junior subordinated debt securities   the
    sole assets of the respective Capital Trusts. The Series A
    Trust and Series B Trust will each make quarterly
    distributions on the common and preferred securities at an
    annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively.

The Holding Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the
    trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent
    that there are funds available in the Capital Trusts. The
    guarantee will remain in place until the full redemption of the
    trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held
    by the common equity unit holders are pledged to the Holding
    Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity
    unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The
    common equity unit holder may substitute certain zero coupon
    treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities
    as collateral under the stock purchase contract.

The trust preferred securities have remarketing dates which
    correspond with the initial and subsequent stock purchase dates
    to provide the holders of the common equity units with the
    proceeds to exercise the stock purchase contracts. The initial
    stock purchase date is expected to be August 15, 2008, but
    could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15,
    2009, and the subsequent stock purchase date is expected to be
    February 15, 2009, but could be deferred for quarterly
    periods until February 15, 2010. At the remarketing date,
    the remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the
    interest rate on the trust preferred securities to generate
    sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the common equity
    unit holder s obligation under the stock purchase contract,
    subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted
    remarketings of each series. The interest rate on the supporting
    junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding
    Company will be reset at a commensurate rate. If the initial
    remarketing is unsuccessful, the remarketing agent will attempt
    to remarket the trust preferred securities, as necessary, in
    subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009 for the
    Series A trust preferred securities and through
    February 15, 2010 for the Series B trust preferred
    securities. The final attempt at remarketing will not be subject
    to the reset cap. If all remarketing attempts are unsuccessful,
    the Holding Company has the right, as a secured party, to apply
    the liquidation amount on the trust preferred securities to the
    common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase
    contract and to deliver to the common equity unit holder a
    junior subordinated debt security payable on August 15,
    2010 at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A
    and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively, in
    payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions.

Each stock purchase contract requires (i) the Holding
    Company to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly
    contract payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual
    rate of 1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase
    contract until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual
    rate of 1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per
    stock purchase contract thereafter; and (ii) the holder of
    the common equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to
    sell, for $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and
    the subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or
    treasury shares of the Holding Company s common stock, par
    value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate.
    The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will
    be calculated based on the closing price of the common stock
    during a specified
     20-day 
    period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date.
    Accordingly, upon settlement in the aggregate, the Holding
    Company will receive proceeds of $2,070 million and issue
    between 39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of its
    common stock. The stock purchase contract may be exercised at
    the option of the holder at any time prior to the settlement
    date. However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive
    the minimum settlement rate.

Credit Facilities.   In June 2007, the Holding
    Company and MetLife Funding entered into a $3.0 billion
    credit agreement with various financial institutions, the
    proceeds of which are available to be used for general corporate
    purposes, to support their commercial paper programs and for the
    issuance of letters of credit. All borrowings under the credit
    agreement must be repaid by June 2012, except that letters of
    credit outstanding upon termination may remain outstanding until
    June 2013. The borrowers and the lenders under this facility may
    agree to extend the term of all or part of the facility to no
    later than June 2014, except that letters of credit outstanding
    upon termination may remain outstanding until June 2015. The
    $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2009
    expiration, and the

131

Table of Contents   

$1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2010
    expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and replaced by
    the aforementioned facility.

At December 31, 2007, $1.5 billion of letters of
    credit have been issued under these unsecured credit facilities
    on behalf of the Holding Company.

Committed Facilities.   Information on committed
    facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:

(1)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

In May 2007, MRSC terminated the $2.0 billion amended and
    restated five-year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement
    entered into among the Holding Company, MRSC and various
    institutional lenders on April 25, 2005. In its place the
    Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described under
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity Sources   Debt
    Issuances , which may be extended by agreement of the
    Holding Company and the financial institution on each
    anniversary of the closing of the facility for an additional
    one-year period. At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion
    had been drawn upon under the collateral financing arrangement. 

(4)  

In December 2007, Exeter terminated four letters of credit, with
    expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, that were
    issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution in an aggregate amount of
    $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as
    collateral for Exeter s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement that was recaptured by MLI-USA in December 2007.
    MLI-USA immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance
    agreement with MRV. To collateralize its reinsurance
    obligations, MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2007,
    the Holding Company had $1.5 billion in outstanding letters
    of credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned
    credit facilities, from various financial institutions. As
    commitments associated with letters of credit and financing
    arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily
    reflect the Holding Company s actual future cash funding
    requirements.

Liquidity
    Uses   

The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include
    debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock,
    capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general
    operating expenses, acquisitions and the repurchase of the
    Holding Company s common stock.

132

Table of Contents   

Dividends.   The table below presents
    declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and
    aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Holding Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as the Company s current
    earnings, expected medium- and long-term earnings, financial
    condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable
    governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment
    of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by
    its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and
    regulations.

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Preferred Shares is as follows:

See    Subsequent Events. 

Affiliated Capital Transactions.   During the
    years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company
    invested an aggregate of $2.8 billion and
    $1.8 billion, respectively, in various affiliates.

In December 2005, RGA repurchased 1.6 million shares of its
    outstanding common stock at an aggregate price of
    $76 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement
    with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to RGA from
    third parties and purchased the shares in the open market over
    the subsequent few months to return to the lenders. RGA would
    either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid
    by the bank to purchase the shares. These repurchases resulted
    in an increase in the Company s ownership percentage of RGA
    to approximately 53% at December 31, 2005 from
    approximately 52% at December 31, 2004. In February 2006,
    the final purchase price was determined, resulting in a cash
    settlement substantially equal to the aggregate cost. RGA
    recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and
    recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the
    treasury stock. At December 31, 2007, the Company s
    ownership was approximately 52% of RGA.

133

Table of Contents   

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    affiliates, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to affiliates and
    consisted of the following at:

Debt Repayments.   The Holding Company repaid a
    $500 million 5.25% senior note which matured in
    December 2006 and a $1,006 million 3.911% senior note
    which matured in May 2005.

Share Repurchase.   In October 2004, the Holding
    Company s Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion
    common stock repurchase program. In February 2007, the Holding
    Company s Board of Directors authorized an additional
    $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In September
    2007, the Holding Company s Board of Directors authorized
    an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program
    which began after the completion of the $1 billion common
    stock repurchase program authorized in February 2007. In January
    2008, the Holding Company s Board of Directors authorized
    an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program,
    which began after the completion of the September 2007 program.
    (See    Subsequent Events ). Under these
    authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its common
    stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open market
    (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading plan
    meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act and in privately negotiated transactions.

The Holding Company has entered into the following accelerated
    common stock repurchase agreements:

In December 2007, the Holding Company entered into an
    accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a major bank.
    Under the terms of the agreement, the Holding Company paid the
    bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange for
    6.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock that the
    bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the
    bank delivered 1.1 million additional shares of Holding
    Company s common stock to the Holding Company resulting in
    a total of 7.7 million shares being repurchased under the
    agreement. At December 31, 2007, the Holding Company
    recorded the obligation to pay $450 million to the bank as
    a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Upon settlement with
    the bank, the Holding Company increased additional paid-in
    capital and reduced treasury stock.

In November 2007, the Holding Company repurchased
    11.6 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an
    initial cost of $750 million under an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed
    the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and
    purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such
    third parties. Also, in November 2007, the Holding Company
    received a cash adjustment of $19 million based on the
    trading price of the common stock during the repurchase period,
    for a final purchase price of $731 million. The Holding
    Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury
    stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the
    cost of the treasury stock.

In March 2007, the Holding Company repurchased 11.9 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Holding Company from third parties and purchased
    common stock in the open market to return to such third parties.
    In June 2007, the Holding Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $17 million for a final purchase price of
    $767 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares
    initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount
    paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

134

Table of Contents   

In December 2006, the Holding Company repurchased
    4.0 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an
    aggregate cost of $232 million under an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed
    the common stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties
    and purchased the common stock in the open market to return to
    such third parties. In February 2007, the Holding Company paid a
    cash adjustment of $8 million for a final purchase price of
    $240 million. The Holding Company recorded the shares
    initially repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount
    paid as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In December 2004, the Holding Company repurchased
    7.3 million shares of its outstanding common stock at an
    aggregate cost of $300 million under an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed
    the stock sold to the Holding Company from third parties and
    purchased the common stock in the open market to return to such
    third parties. In April 2005, the Holding Company received a
    cash adjustment of $7 million based on the actual amount
    paid by the bank to purchase the common stock, for a final
    purchase price of $293 million. The Holding Company
    recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury stock and
    recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the
    treasury stock.

The Company also repurchased 3.1 million and
    4.6 million shares through open market purchases for
    $200 million and $268 million, respectively, during
    the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Cumulatively, the Company repurchased 26.6 million and
    8.6 million shares of its common stock for
    $1.7 billion and $500 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company did
    not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the year
    ended December 31, 2005. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 3.9 million,
    3.1 million and 25.0 million shares of common stock
    were issued from treasury stock for $172 million,
    $102 million and $819 million, respectively, of which
    22.4 million shares with a market value of $1 billion
    were issued in connection with the acquisition of Travelers of
    July 1, 2005.

At December 31, 2006, the Company had $216 million
    remaining on the October 2004 common stock repurchase program
    which was subsequently reduced by $8 million to
    $208 million after the February 2007 cash adjustment to the
    December 2006 accelerated common stock repurchase agreement. The
    February 2007 stock repurchase program authorization was fully
    utilized during 2007. At December 31, 2007,
    $511 million remained on the Company s September 2007
    common stock repurchase program. The $511 million remaining
    on the September 2007 common stock repurchase program was
    reduced by $450 million to $61 million upon settlement
    of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement executed during
    December 2007 but for which no settlement occurred until January
    2008. Subsequent to the January 2008 authorization, the amount
    remaining under these repurchase programs was
    $1,061 million. After execution of the accelerated stock
    repurchase agreement in February 2008 and certain open market
    purchases as more fully described in
       Subsequent Events , the Company s
    remaining authorization is $261 million.

Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several
    factors, including the Company s capital position, its
    financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions
    and the price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock.

See     Subsequent Events  for further
    information relating to common stock repurchases subsequent to
    December 31, 2007.

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company is
    party to various capital support commitments with certain of its
    subsidiaries and a corporation in which it owns 50% of the
    equity. Under these arrangements, the Holding Company has agreed
    to cause each such entity to meet specified capital and surplus
    levels. Management does not anticipate that these arrangements
    will place any significant demands upon the Holding
    Company s liquidity resources.

Based on management s analysis and comparison of its
    current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives
    from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior
    insurance regulatory approval, its portfolio of liquid assets,
    anticipated securities issuances and other anticipated cash
    flows, management believes there will be sufficient liquidity to
    enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt, make cash
    dividend payments on its common and preferred stock, contribute
    capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses and meet
    its cash needs.

135

Table of Contents   

Subsequent
    Events  

Dividends   

On February 19, 2008, the Company s Board of Directors
    announced dividends of $0.3785745 per share, for a total of
    $9 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and
    $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its
    Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2008,
    the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the
    securities. Both dividends will be payable March 17, 2008
    to shareholders of record as of February 29, 2008.

Acquisitions   

On February 1, 2008, the Company announced its completion
    of the acquisition of SafeGuard Health Enterprises, Inc.
    ( Safeguard ) for approximately $190 million.
    Safeguard is primarily involved in providing dental and vision
    benefit plans, including health maintenance and preferred
    provider organization plan designs and administrative services.

On January 2, 2008, the Company completed its acquisition of
    AFORE Actinver, S.A. de C.V. ( Actinver ) for
    approximately $125 million. Actinver manages retirement accounts
    for approximately 1.1 million individuals in Mexico.

Stock
    Repurchases   

On January 15, 2008, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program,
    which began after the completion of an earlier $1 billion
    authorization that was announced in September 2007.

As previously described, in December 2007, the Company entered
    into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a
    major bank. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid
    the bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange
    for 6.6 million shares of the Company s outstanding
    common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in
    January 2008, the bank delivered 1.1 million additional
    shares of the Company s common stock to the Company
    resulting in a total of 7.7 million shares being
    repurchased under the agreement. Upon settlement with the bank,
    the Company increased additional paid-in capital and reduced
    treasury stock.

In February 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the
    agreement, the Company paid the bank $711 million in cash and
    the bank delivered an initial amount of 11.2 million shares of
    the Company s outstanding common stock that the bank
    borrowed from third parties. Final settlement of the agreement
    is scheduled to take place during the first half of 2008. The
    final number of shares the Company is repurchasing under the
    terms of the agreement and the timing of the final settlement
    will depend on, among other things, prevailing market conditions
    and the market prices of the common stock during the repurchase
    period. The Company recorded the consideration paid as a
    reduction to stockholders  equity.

From January 1, 2008 to February 25, 2008, the Company
    also repurchased 1.6 million of its shares through open market
    purchases for $89 million.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The
    amounts of these unfunded commitments were $5.3 billion and
    $3.0 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be
    invested in partnerships over the next five years. There are no
    other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements
    that are reasonably likely to become material.

136

Table of Contents   

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan
    commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $4.0 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. The
    purpose of these loans is to enhance the Company s total
    return on its investment portfolio. There are no other
    obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements that
    are reasonably likely to become material.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $1.2 billion and
    $1.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The purpose of these commitments and any related
    fundings is to enhance the Company s total return on its
    investment portfolio. There are no other obligations or
    liabilities arising from such arrangements that are reasonably
    likely to become material.

Lease
    Commitments   

The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and
    sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other
    equipment. The Company s commitments under such lease
    agreements are included within the contractual obligations
    table. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    Uses   Investment and Other. 

Credit
    Facilities and Letters of Credit   

The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities
    and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity Sources   Credit
    Facilities  and    Letters of Credit 
    for further descriptions of such arrangements.

Share-Based
    Arrangements   

In connection with the issuance of common equity units, the
    Holding Company issued forward stock purchase contracts under
    which the Holding Company will issue, in 2008 and 2009, between
    39.0 and 47.8 million shares of its common stock, depending
    upon whether the share price is greater than $43.35 and less
    than $53.10. See    Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    Sources   Common Equity Units. 

Guarantees   

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities, and other
    indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other
    things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
    provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of
    business, the Company provides indemnifications to
    counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the
    foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as
    third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to
    time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual
    limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as
    applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
    potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is
    subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than
    $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum
    of $2.3 billion, while in other cases such limitations are
    not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations
    are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe
    that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount
    that could become due under these guarantees in the future.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s interests. Since
    these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the

137

Table of Contents   

Company does not believe that it is possible to determine the
    maximum potential amount that could become due under these
    indemnities in the future.

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these guarantees in the future.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
    recorded a $1 million liability with respect to a guarantee
    previously provided to MLII, a former subsidiary. The
    Company s recorded liabilities at December 31, 2007
    and 2006 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments were
    $6 million and $5 million, respectively.

In connection with synthetically created investment
    transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations
    that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in
    exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit
    event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Company s
    maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of the referenced
    credits becomes worthless, was $1.7 billion at
    December 31, 2007. The credit default swaps expire at
    various times during the next ten years.

Other
    Commitments   

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ) is a
    member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the  FHLB
    of Boston ) and holds $70 million of common stock of
    the FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    which is included in equity securities. MICC has also entered
    into funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has
    issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for
    which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on
    certain MICC assets, including residential mortgage-backed
    securities, to collateralize MICC s obligations under the
    funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged
    assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any
    portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of
    default by MICC, the FHLB of Boston s recovery on the
    collateral is limited to the amount of MICC s liability to
    the FHLB of Boston. The amount of the Company s liability
    for funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was
    $726 million and $926 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in policyholder
    account balances. The advances on these funding agreements are
    collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities with
    fair values of $901 million and $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

MLIC is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $339 million
    and $136 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included
    in equity securities. MLIC has also entered into funding
    agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MLIC has issued such
    funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB
    of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC assets, including
    residential mortgage-backed securities to collateralize
    MLIC s obligations under the funding agreements. MLIC
    maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use,
    commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral
    as long as there is no event of default and the remaining
    qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral
    maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC, the FHLB
    of NY s recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount
    of MLIC s liability to the FHLB of NY. The amount of the
    Company s liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of
    NY was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007, which is
    included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these
    agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed
    securities with fair values of $4.8 billion at
    December 31, 2007. MLIC did not have any funding agreements
    with the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2006.

MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds
    $64 million and $54 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of NY at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
    which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also
    entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for
    cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket
    lien on MetLife Bank s residential mortgages and
    mortgage-backed securities to collateralize MetLife Bank s
    obligations under the repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank
    maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use,
    commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral
    as long as there is no event of default and the remaining
    qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral
    maintenance level. The repurchase agreements and the related
    security agreement represented by this blanket lien provide that
    upon any event of default by MetLife Bank,

138

Table of Contents   

the FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the amount of
    MetLife Bank s liability under the outstanding repurchase
    agreements. The amount of the Company s liability for
    repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY was $1.2 billion
    and $998 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, which is included in long-term debt. The advances
    on these repurchase agreements are collateralized by residential
    mortgage-backed securities and residential mortgage loans with
    fair values of $1.3 billion at both December 31, 2007
    and 2006.

Collateral
    for Securities Lending   

The Company has non-cash collateral for securities lending on
    deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and
    which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets.
    The amount of this collateral was $40 million and
    $100 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Pensions
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans  

Description
    of Plans   

Plan
    Description Overview  

The Subsidiaries sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans
    covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula.
    The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of
    credited service and either final average or career average
    earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or
    notional accounts, which credit participants with benefits equal
    to a percentage of eligible pay, as well as earnings credits,
    determined annually based upon the average annual rate of
    interest on
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of
    December 31, 2007, virtually all of the Subsidiaries 
    obligations have been calculated using the traditional formula.
    The non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits,
    in excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to
    certain executive level employees.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for a covered subsidiary, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

Financial
    Summary  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
    No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for Pensions
     ( SFAS 87 ), as amended, establishes the
    accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87, the
    projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is
    defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested
    and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary
    levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation
    ( ABO ) is the actuarial present value of vested and
    non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary
    levels. The PBO and ABO of the pension plans are set forth in
    the following section.

Prior to December 31, 2006, SFAS 87 also required the
    recognition of an additional minimum pension liability and an
    intangible asset (limited to unrecognized prior service cost) if
    the market value of pension plan assets was less than the ABO at
    the measurement date. The excess of the additional minimum
    pension liability over the allowable intangible asset was
    charged, net of taxes, to accumulated other comprehensive
    income. The Company s additional minimum pension liability
    was $78 million, and the intangible asset was
    $12 million, at December 31, 2005. The excess of the
    additional minimum pension liability over the intangible asset
    of $66 million ($41 million, net of income tax) was
    recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive
    income. At December 31, 2006, the Company s additional
    minimum pension liability was $92 million. The additional
    minimum pension liability of $59 million, net of income tax
    of $33 million, was recorded as a reduction of accumulated
    other comprehensive income.

139

Table of Contents   

SFAS No. 106,  Employers Accounting for
    Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions,  as amended,
    ( SFAS 106 ), establishes the accounting for
    expected postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( EPBO ) which represents the actuarial present value
    of all postretirement benefits expected to be paid after
    retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike the PBO for
    pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements
    but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated
    postretirement plan benefit obligation ( APBO )
    represents the actuarial present value of future postretirement
    benefits attributed to employee services rendered through a
    particular date. The APBO is recorded in the financial
    statements and is set forth below.

As described more fully in    Adoption of New
    Accounting Pronouncements , the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
    Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
        an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r)
     ( SFAS 158 ), effective December 31,
    2006. Upon adoption, the Company was required to recognize in
    the consolidated balance sheet the funded status of defined
    benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Funded status is
    measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets
    and the benefit obligation, which is the PBO for pension plans
    and the APBO for other postretirement plans. The change to
    recognize funded status eliminated the additional minimum
    pension liability provisions of SFAS 87. In addition, the
    Company recognized as an adjustment to accumulated other
    comprehensive income, net of income tax, those amounts of
    actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and
    the remaining net transition asset or obligation that had not
    yet been included in net periodic benefit cost at the date of
    adoption. The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction
    of $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total
    consolidated stockholders  equity. The following table
    summarizes the adjustments to the December 31, 2006
    consolidated balance sheet in order to effect the adoption of
    SFAS 158.

A December 31 measurement date is used for all the
    Company s defined benefit pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans.

140

Table of Contents   

The benefit obligations and funded status of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans, as determined in accordance with
    the applicable provisions described above, were as follows:

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair
    value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $5,348 million and $5,505 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit
    obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows:

141

Table of Contents   

Information for pension and other postretirement plans with a
    projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as
    follows:

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations   

Pension
    Plan Obligations  

Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit pension
    plans are determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions,
    from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant
    of these assumptions include the discount rate used to determine
    the present value of future benefit payments, the expected rate
    of compensation increases and average expected retirement age.

Assumptions used in determining pension plan obligations were as
    follows:

The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield,
    measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio
    constructed of high-quality debt instruments available on the
    valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash
    flows to pay the aggregate PBO when due. The yield of this
    hypothetical portfolio, constructed of bonds rated AA or better
    by Moody s Investors Services ( Moody s) resulted
    in a discount rate of approximately 6.65% and 6.00% for the
    defined pension plans as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases)
    the PBO. This increase (decrease) to the PBO is amortized into
    earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the
    December 31, 2007 PBO, a 25 basis point decrease
    (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase
    (decrease) in the PBO of $159 million.

At the end of 2007, total net actuarial losses were
    $623 million as compared to $1,123 million in 2006. In
    2007, the majority of the reduction in the actuarial losses is
    due to the increase in the discount rate to 6.65% in 2007 from
    6.00% in 2006. These losses will be amortized on a straight-line
    basis over the average remaining service period of active
    employees expected to receive benefits under the benefit plans.
    At the end of 2007, the average remaining service period of
    active employees was 8.2 years for the pension plans.

As the benefits provided under the defined pension plans are
    calculated as a percentage of future earnings, an assumption of
    future compensation increases is required to determine the
    projected benefit obligation. These rates are derived through
    periodic analysis of historical demographic data conducted by an
    independent actuarial firm. The last review of such data was
    conducted using salary information through 2006 and the Company
    believes that no circumstances have subsequently occurred that
    would result in a material change to the compensation rate
    assumptions.

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations  

The APBO is determined using a variety of actuarial assumptions,
    from which actual results may vary. Some of the more significant
    of these assumptions include the discount rate, the healthcare
    cost trend rate and the average expected retirement age. The
    determination of the discount rate and the average expected
    retirement age are substantially consistent with the
    determination described previously for the pension plans.

142

Table of Contents   

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the
    APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

One Percent 

One Percent 

Increase 

Decrease 

(In millions) 

Effect on total of service and interest cost components

$

7

$

(6

)

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$

63

$

(62

)

A decrease (increase) in the discount rate increases (decreases)
    the APBO. This increase (decrease) to the APBO is amortized into
    earnings as an actuarial loss (gain). Based on the
    December 31, 2007 APBO, a 25 basis point decrease
    (increase) in the discount rate would result in an increase
    (decrease) in the APBO of $44 million.

At the end of 2007, total net actuarial gains were
    $112 million as compared to net actuarial losses of
    $328 million in 2006. The majority of the net actuarial
    gains are due to the increase in the discount rate, an increased
    number of retirees opting out of plan benefits and lower than
    expected medical inflation. These gains will be amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of
    active employees expected to receive benefits under the other
    postretirement benefit plans. At the end of 2007, the average
    remaining service period of active employees was 8.3 years
    for the other postretirement benefit plans.

In 2004, the Company adopted the guidance in
     FSP 106-2 
     Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003
      ( FSP 106-2 ), 
    to account for future subsidies to be received under the
    Prescription Drug Act. The Company began receiving these
    subsidies during 2006. A summary of the reduction to the APBO
    and related reduction to the components of net periodic other
    postretirement benefit cost is as follows:

The Company received subsidies of $10 million and
    $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.

143

Table of Contents   

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Net Periodic Benefit Cost   

Pension
    Cost  

Net periodic pension cost is comprised of the following:

i) 

Service Cost   Service cost is the increase in the
    projected pension benefit obligation resulting from benefits
    payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service rendered
    during the current year.

ii) 

Interest Cost on the Liability   Interest cost is the
    time value adjustment on the projected pension benefit
    obligation at the end of each year.

iii) 

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on
    plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated
    pension fund assets in a particular year.

iv) 

Amortization of Prior Service Cost   This cost relates
    to the increase or decrease to pension benefit cost for service
    provided in prior years due to amendments in plans or initiation
    of new plans. As the economic benefits of these costs are
    realized in the future periods, these costs are amortized to
    pension expense over the expected service years of the employees.

v) 

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses  
    Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the
    actual experience and the expected experience on pension plan
    assets or projected pension benefit obligation during a
    particular period. These gains and losses are accumulated and,
    to the extent they exceed 10% of the greater of the projected
    pension benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan
    assets, they are amortized into pension expense over the
    expected service years of the employees.

The Subsidiaries recognized pension expense of $98 million
    in 2007 as compared to $180 million in 2006 and
    $146 million in 2005. The major components of net periodic
    pension cost described above were as follows:

The increase in expense from 2005 to 2006 was primarily a result
    of both increases in service and interest cost and amortization
    of net actuarial losses resulting largely from lower discount
    rates, partially offset by the impact of an increase in the
    expected return on plan assets due to a larger plan assets base.

The decrease in expense from 2006 to 2007 was primarily the
    result of an increase in the expected return on plan assets and
    a decrease in amortization of net actuarial losses resulting
    from the $350 million contribution made in 2006. The
    increase in the interest cost resulted from the increase in the
    discount rate.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for
    the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from
    accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit
    cost over the next year are both $14 million.

The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net
    periodic pension cost was 6.00%, 5.82% and 5.83% for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The weighted average expected rate of return on pension plan
    assets used to calculate the net periodic pension cost for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 8.25%,
    8.25% and 8.50%, respectively. The expected rate of return on
    plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various
    asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target
    allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based
    on long-term

144

Table of Contents   

historical returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for
    the Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on the performance
    of the markets. While the precise expected return derived using
    this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the
    Subsidiaries  policy is to hold this long-term assumption
    constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from
    the derived rate. The actual net return on the investments has
    been an approximation of the estimated return for the pension
    plan in 2007, 2006 and 2005.

Based on the December 31, 2007 asset balances, a
    25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of
    return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in
    net periodic benefit cost of $15 million for the pension
    plans.

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Cost  

The net periodic other postretirement benefit cost consists of
    the following:

i) 

Service Cost   Service cost is the increase in the
    expected postretirement plan benefit obligation resulting from
    benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service
    rendered during the current year.

ii) 

Interest Cost on the Liability   Interest cost is the
    time value adjustment on the expected postretirement benefit
    obligation at the end of each year.

iii) 

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on
    plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated
    other postretirement fund assets in a particular year.

iv) 

Amortization of Prior Service Cost   This cost relates
    to the increase or decrease to other postretirement benefit cost
    for service provided in prior years due to amendments in plans
    or initiation of new plans. As the economic benefits of these
    costs are realized in the future periods these costs are
    amortized to other postretirement benefit expense over the
    expected service years of the employees.

v) 

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses  
    Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the
    actual experience and the expected experience on other
    postretirement benefit plan assets or expected postretirement
    plan benefit obligation during a particular year. These gains
    and losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of
    the greater of the accumulated postretirement plan benefit
    obligation or the market-related value of plan assets, they are
    amortized into other postretirement benefit expense over the
    expected service years of the employees.

The Subsidiaries recognized other postretirement benefit expense
    of $9 million in 2007 as compared to $60 million in
    2006 and $77 million in 2005. The major components of net
    periodic other postretirement benefit cost described above were
    as follows:

The decrease in benefit cost from 2005 to 2006 was due to
    changes in plan benefits resulting in decreased service and
    interest cost and increases in amortization of prior service
    costs. The continued decrease from 2006 to 2007 primarily
    resulted from a change in the Medicare integration methodology
    for certain retirees.

145

Table of Contents   

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service credit for
    the other postretirement benefit plans that will be amortized
    from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic
    benefit cost over the next year are less than $1 million
    and $37 million, respectively.

The weighted average discount rate used to calculate the net
    periodic postretirement cost was 6.00%, 5.82% and 5.98% for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

The weighted average expected rate of return on plan assets used
    to calculate the net other postretirement benefit cost for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 7.47%,
    7.42% and 7.51%, respectively. The expected rate of return on
    plan assets is based on anticipated performance of the various
    asset sectors in which the plan invests, weighted by target
    allocation percentages. Anticipated future performance is based
    on long-term historical returns of the plan assets by sector,
    adjusted for the Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on
    the performance of the markets. While the precise expected
    return derived using this approach will fluctuate from year to
    year, the Subsidiaries  policy is to hold this long-term
    assumption constant as long as it remains within reasonable
    tolerance from the derived rate. The actual net return on the
    investments has been an approximation of the estimated return
    for the other postretirement plans in 2007, 2006 and 2005.

Based on the December 31, 2007 asset balances, a
    25 basis point increase (decrease) in the expected rate of
    return on plan assets would result in a decrease (increase) in
    net periodic benefit cost of $3 million for the other
    postretirement plans.

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets   

Pension
    Plan Assets  

Substantially all assets of the pension plans are invested
    within group annuity and life insurance contracts issued by the
    Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in separate
    accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account values of
    assets held with the Subsidiaries were $6,440 million and
    $6,205 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The terms of these contracts are consistent in all
    material respects with those the Subsidiaries offer to
    unaffiliated parties that are similarly situated.

Net assets invested in separate accounts are stated at the
    aggregate fair value of units of participation. Such value
    reflects accumulated contributions, dividends and realized and
    unrealized investment gains or losses apportioned to such
    contributions, less withdrawals, distributions, allocable
    expenses relating to the purchase, sale and maintenance of the
    assets and an allocable part of such separate accounts 
    investment expenses.

Separate account investments in fixed income and equity
    securities are generally carried at published market value, or
    if published market values are not readily available, at
    estimated market values. Investments in short-term fixed income
    securities are generally reflected as cash equivalents and
    carried at fair value. Real estate investments are carried at
    estimated fair value based on appraisals performed by
    third-party real estate appraisal firms, and generally,
    determined by discounting projected cash flows over periods of
    time and at interest rates deemed appropriate for each
    investment. Information on the physical value of the property
    and the sales prices of comparable properties is used to
    corroborate fair value estimates. Estimated fair value of hedge
    fund net assets is generally determined by third-party pricing
    vendors using quoted market prices or through the use of pricing
    models which are affected by changes in interest rates, foreign
    currency exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads,
    market supply and demand, market volatility and liquidity.

146

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the actual and target
    weighted-average allocations of pension plan assets within the
    separate accounts:

Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective
    of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets
    through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to
    target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of
    economic factors and market conditions.

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets  

Substantially all assets of the other postretirement benefit
    plans are invested within life insurance and reserve contracts
    issued by the Subsidiaries. The majority of assets are held in
    separate accounts established by the Subsidiaries. The account
    values of assets held with the Subsidiaries were
    $1,125 million and $1,116 million as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The terms of
    these contracts are consistent in all material respects with
    those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are
    similarly situated.

The valuation of separate accounts and the investments within
    such separate accounts invested in by the other postretirement
    plans are similar to that described in the preceding section on
    pension plans.

The following table summarizes the actual and target
    weighted-average allocations of other postretirement benefit
    plan assets within the separate accounts:

Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective
    of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets
    through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to
    target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of
    economic factors and market conditions.

Funding
    and Cash Flows of Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plan
    Obligations   

Pension
    Plan Obligations  

It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to
    the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding
    requirements of ERISA, as amended. In accordance with such
    practice, no contributions were required for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 or 2006. No contributions will be
    required for 2008. The Subsidiaries did not make any
    discretionary contributions to the qualified pension plans
    during the year ended December 31, 2007. During the year
    ended December 31, 2006, the Subsidiaries made
    discretionary contributions of $350 million. The
    Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary
    contributions of $150 million in 2008.

147

Table of Contents   

Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are
    funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as they become
    due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled
    $50 million and $38 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These benefit
    payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in
    2008.

Gross pension benefit payments for the next ten years, which
    reflect expected future service as appropriate, are expected to
    be as follows:

Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plan Obligations  

Other postretirement benefits represent a non-vested,
    non-guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current
    regulations do not require specific funding levels for these
    benefits. While the Subsidiaries have funded such plans in
    advance, it has been the Subsidiaries  practice to
    primarily use their general assets, net of participants 
    contributions, to pay claims as they come due in lieu of
    utilizing plan assets. Total payments equaled $174 million
    and $152 million for the years ended December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.

The Subsidiaries  expect to make contributions of
    $116 million, net of participants  contributions,
    towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2008. As
    noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies
    under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such
    payments.

Gross other postretirement benefit payments for the next ten
    years, which reflect expected future service where appropriate,
    and gross subsidies to be received under the Prescription Drug
    Act are expected to be as follows:

Insolvency
    Assessments  

Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to
    transact business require insurers doing business within the
    jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are
    organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer

148

Table of Contents   

engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover
    assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.
    Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments are as
    follows:

(1)  

The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior
    acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 

Assessments levied against the Company were ($1) million,
    $2 million and $4 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Effects
    of Inflation  

The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material
    effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar
    as inflation may affect interest rates.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements  

Income
    Taxes  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    tax recognized in a company s financial statements.
    FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is
     more likely than not  that a tax position will be
    sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities
    before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial
    statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
    measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties,
    along with any related interest and penalties. Previously
    recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard
    are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such
    determination is made.

As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company
    recognized a $52 million increase in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, a $4 million decrease in the
    interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a
    corresponding reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of
    retained earnings of $37 million, net of $11 million
    of minority interest.

Insurance
    Contracts  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
     SOP 05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts .
     SOP 05-1 
    which provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises
    for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment
    contracts other than those specifically described in SFAS
    No. 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance
    Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized
    Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
      SOP 05-1 
    defines an internal replacement and is effective for internal
    replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006. In addition, in February 2007, the
    American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
    ( AICPA ) issued related Technical Practice Aids
    ( TPAs ) to provide further clarification of
     SOP 05-1. 
    The TPAs became effective concurrently with the adoption of
     SOP 05-1. 

149

Table of Contents   

As a result of the adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs, if an internal replacement modification
    substantially changes a contract, then the DAC is written off
    immediately through income and any new deferrable costs
    associated with the new replacement are deferred. If a contract
    modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC
    amortization on the original contract will continue and any
    acquisition costs associated with the related modification are
    immediately expensed.

The adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on
    January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization
    period relating primarily to the Company s group life and
    health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset
    provisions. Prior to the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts was amortized over the expected renewable
    life of the contract. Upon adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts is to be amortized over the rate reset
    period. The impact as of January 1, 2007 was a cumulative
    effect adjustment of $292 million, net of income tax of
    $161 million, which was recorded as a reduction to retained
    earnings.

Defined
    Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans  

Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting
    standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
    plans by requiring the:

(i)   

recognition in the statement of financial position of the funded
    status of defined benefit plans measured as the difference
    between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit
    obligation, which is the projected benefit obligation for
    pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit
    obligation for other postretirement plans;

(ii)  

recognition as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial
    gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and net asset
    or obligation at transition that have not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit costs as of the end of the year of adoption;

(iii)  

recognition of subsequent changes in funded status as a
    component of other comprehensive income;

(iv)  

measurement of benefit plan assets and obligations as of the
    date of the statement of financial position; and

(v)   

disclosure of additional information about the effects on the
    employer s statement of financial position.

The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of
    $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total
    consolidated stockholders  equity. As the Company s
    measurement date for its pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans is already December 31 there was no impact of
    adoption due to changes in measurement date. See also
     Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates. 

Stock
    Compensation Plans  

As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the
    Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental
    application guidance issued by the SEC in Staff Accounting
    Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107,  Share-Based Payment
     ( SAB 107 )   using the modified
    prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified
    prospective transition method, results for prior periods have
    not been restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of
    all stock-based transactions be measured at fair value and
    recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to
    provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company
    had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for
    stock-based awards as prescribed by SFAS No. 123,
     Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation 
    ( SFAS 123 ) on a prospective basis effective
    January 1, 2003, and prior to January 1, 2003,
    accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under the
    intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25. The Company did not
    modify the substantive terms of any existing awards prior to
    adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation
    expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006
    includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock-based
    awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of
    January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the original provisions of
    SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all
    stock-based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based
    on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS 123(r).

150

Table of Contents   

The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant
    impact on the Company s financial position or results of
    operations as all stock-based awards accounted for under the
    intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to
    the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on January 1, 2003.

SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock-based awards to be
    recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period
    in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of
    SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now
    incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the
    determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense
    over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in
    accounting policy was not significant to the Company s
    financial position or results of operations as of the date of
    adoption.

Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company
    changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock-based
    awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such
    expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the
    period to attainment of retirement-eligibility.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented
    tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock
    options within operating cash flows in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits
    resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost
    recognized for those options be classified and reported as a
    financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

The Company has adopted guidance relating to derivative
    financial instruments as follows:

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain
    Hybrid Instruments  ( SFAS 155 ).
    SFAS 155 amends SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging 
    ( SFAS 133 ) and SFAS No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities
     ( SFAS 140 ). SFAS 155 allows financial
    instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for
    as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative
    from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole
    instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other
    changes, SFAS 155:

(i)   

clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips
    are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133;

(ii)  

establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized
    financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding
    derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that
    contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;

(iii)  

clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of
    subordination are not embedded derivatives; and

(iv)  

amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a
    qualifying special-purpose entity ( QSPE ) from
    holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a
    beneficial interest other than another derivative financial
    interest.

The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on
    the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective October 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B40,  Embedded
    Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized
    Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets  ( Issue
    B40 ). Issue B40 clarifies that a securitized interest in
    prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in
    paragraph 13(b) of SFAS 133, if it meets both of the
    following criteria: (i) the right to accelerate the
    settlement if the securitized interest cannot be controlled by
    the investor; and (ii) the securitized interest itself does
    not contain an embedded derivative (including an interest
    rate-related derivative) for which bifurcation would be required
    other than an embedded derivative that results solely from the
    embedded call options in the underlying financial assets. The
    adoption of Issue B40 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38,
     Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with
    Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument  

151

Table of Contents   

through Exercise of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option
     ( Issue B38 ) and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue
    No. B39,  Embedded Derivatives: Application of
    Paragraph 13(b) to Call Options That Are Exercisable Only
    by the Debtor  ( Issue B39 ). Issue B38 clarifies
    that the potential settlement of a debtor s obligation to a
    creditor occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets
    the net settlement criteria of SFAS 133. Issue B39
    clarifies that an embedded call option, in which the underlying
    is an interest rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate
    the settlement of a debt host financial instrument should not be
    bifurcated and fair valued if the right to accelerate the
    settlement can be exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower)
    and the investor will recover substantially all of its initial
    net investment. The adoption of Issues B38 and B39 did not have
    a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

Other  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Staff
    Position ( FSP ) Emerging Issues Task Force
    ( EITF )
     00-19-2, 
     Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements
     ( FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 ). 
    FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments
    or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment
    arrangement should be separately recognized and measured in
    accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies.  The adoption of FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 13-2, 
     Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of
    Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged
    Lease Transaction
      ( FSP 13-2 ). 
     FSP 13-2 
    amends SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases , to
    require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax
    cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more
    frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in
    timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition,
     FSP 13-2 
    requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting
    from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from
    continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged
    lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption
    is changed. The adoption of
     FSP 13-2 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
    Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement
    No. 140  ( SFAS 156 ). Among other
    requirements, SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a
    servicing asset or servicing liability each time it undertakes
    an obligation to service a financial asset by entering into a
    servicing contract in certain situations. The adoption of
    SFAS 156 did not have an impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted
    SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
    Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
    Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ).
    SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements
    should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current
    year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality.
    SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using
    both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate
    whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement
    that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are
    considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to
    initially apply its provisions by either restating prior
    financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment
    to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of
    January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained
    earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but
    are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of
    SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively EITF Issue
     No. 05-7, 
     Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded
    in Debt Instruments and Related Issues
      ( EITF 05-7 ). 
     EITF 05-7 
    provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion
    options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that
    debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of
    an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification.
    The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an
    embedded conversion option upon modification should be included
    in the analysis of EITF Issue
     No. 96-19, 
     Debtor s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of
    Debt Instruments , to determine whether a modification or
    extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value
    of a conversion option should be recognized

152

Table of Contents   

upon the modification as a discount (or premium) associated with
    the debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid-in
    capital. The adoption of
     EITF 05-7 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 05-8, 
     Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a
    Beneficial Conversion Feature
      ( EITF 05-8 ). 
     EITF 05-8 
    concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a
    beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that
    should be accounted for as a temporary difference; and
    (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for
    the basis difference should result in an adjustment to
    additional paid-in capital.
     EITF 05-8 
    was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a
    beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with
    EITF Issue
     No. 98-5, 
     Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial
    Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion
    Ratios , and EITF Issue
     No. 00-27, 
     Application of Issue
     No. 98-5 
    to Certain Convertible Instruments.  The adoption of
     EITF 05-8 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
    Statement No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ).
    SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
    periods  financial statements for a voluntary change in
    accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also
    requires that a change in the method of depreciation,
    amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets
    be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than
    a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS 154
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 04-5, 
     Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
    Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar
    Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
      ( EITF 04-5 ). 
     EITF 04-5 
    provides a framework for determining whether a general partner
    controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a
    similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited
    partners. The consensus also provides additional guidance on
    substantive rights.
     EITF 04-5 
    was effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed
    partnerships and for any pre-existing limited partnerships that
    modified their partnership agreements after that date. For all
    other limited partnerships,
     EITF 04-5 
    required adoption by January 1, 2006 through a cumulative
    effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening
    equity or applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period
    financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of
     EITF 04-5 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively
    adopted the guidance in FSP
     No. FAS 140-2, 
     Clarification of the Application of Paragraphs 40(b) and
    40(c) of FAS 140
      ( FSP 140-2 ). 
     FSP 140-2 
    clarified certain criteria relating to derivatives and
    beneficial interests when considering whether an entity
    qualifies as a QSPE. Under
     FSP 140-2, 
    the criteria must only be met at the date the QSPE issues
    beneficial interests or when a derivative financial instrument
    needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified event
    outside the control of the transferor. The adoption of
     FSP 140-2 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an
    amendment of APB Opinion No. 29
     ( SFAS 153 ). SFAS 153 amended prior
    guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of
    similar productive assets and replaced it with a general
    exception for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have
    commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial
    substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to
    change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions
    of SFAS 153 were required to be applied prospectively for
    fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption
    of SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 05-6, 
     Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold
    Improvements
      ( EITF 05-6 ). 
     EITF 05-6 
    provides guidance on determining the amortization period for
    leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or
    acquired subsequent to lease inception. As required by
     EITF 05-6, 
    the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which
    had no material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

153

Table of Contents   

In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of EITF Issue
     No. 03-1, 
     The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its
    Application to Certain Investments
      ( EITF 03-1 ). 
     EITF 03-1 
    provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when
    an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and
    investments accounted for under the cost method should be
    considered other-than-temporary and recognized in income.
     EITF 03-1 
    also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures
    for debt and marketable equity securities classified as
    available-for-sale or held-to-maturity under
    SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in
    Debt and Equity Securities , that are impaired at the balance
    sheet date but for which an other-than-temporary impairment has
    not been recognized. The FASB decided not to provide additional
    guidance on the meaning of other-than-temporary impairment but
    has issued FSP Nos.
     FAS 115-1 
    and
     FAS 124-1, 
     The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and its
    Application to Certain Investments
      ( FSP 115-1 ), 
    which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of
    whether an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired as set
    forth in
     EITF 03-1. 
    As required by
     FSP 115-1, 
    the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis, which
    had no material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements, and has provided the required disclosures.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 109-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings
    Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of
    2004
      ( FSP 109-2 ). 
    The AJCA introduced a one-time dividend received deduction on
    the repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer.
     FSP 109-2 
    provides companies additional time beyond the financial
    reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the
    AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes
    of applying SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes.  During 2005, the Company recorded a $27 million
    income tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign
    earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for
    which a U.S. deferred income tax provision had previously
    been recorded. As of January 1, 2006, the repatriation
    provision of the AJCA no longer applies to the Company.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  

Fair
    Value  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements. Effective January 1, 2008, the
    Company adopted SFAS 157 and applied the provisions of the
    statement prospectively to assets and liabilities measured and
    disclosed at fair value. In addition to new disclosure
    requirements, the adoption of SFAS 157 changes the
    valuation of certain freestanding derivatives by moving from a
    mid to bid pricing convention as well as changing the valuation
    of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts. The
    change in valuation of embedded derivatives associated with
    annuity contracts results from the incorporation of risk margins
    and the Company s own credit standing in their valuation.
    While the Company does not expect such changes in valuation to
    have a material impact on the Company s financial
    statements at January 1, 2008, the addition of risk margins
    and the Company s own credit spread in the valuation of
    embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts may
    result in significant volatility in the Company s
    consolidated net income.

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
     ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 permits entities
    the option to measure most financial instruments and certain
    other items at fair value at specified election dates and to
    report related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The fair
    value option is generally applied on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis and is generally an irrevocable election. Effective
    January 1, 2008, the Company has elected the fair value
    option on fixed maturity securities backing certain pension
    products sold in Brazil. Previously, these fixed maturity
    securities were accounted for as available-for-sale securities
    in accordance with FAS 115. The Company s insurance
    joint venture in Japan also elected the fair value option for
    its single premium deferred annuities and supporting assets.
    These elections are not expected to have a material impact on
    the Company s retained earnings or equity as of
    January 1, 2008.

In June 2007, the AICPA issued
     SOP 07-1, 
     Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide
    Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and
    Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment
    Companies 
     ( SOP 07-1 ) 
    . Upon adoption of
     SOP 07-1, 
    the Company must also adopt the provisions of FASB Staff
    Position No. FSP
     FIN 46(r)-7, 
     Application of FASB Interpretation No. 46 to Investment
    Companies  ( FSP
     FIN 46(r)-7 ), 
    which permanently exempts investment companies from applying the
    provisions of FIN No. 46(r),  Consolidation of  

154

Table of Contents   

Variable Interest Entities   An Interpretation of
    Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 , and its
    December 2003 revision ( FIN 46(r) ) to
    investments carried at fair value.
     SOP 07-1 
    provides guidance for determining whether an entity falls within
    the scope of the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide  Investment
    Companies  and whether investment company accounting should
    be retained by a parent company upon consolidation of an
    investment company subsidiary or by an equity method investor in
    an investment company. In certain circumstances,
     SOP 07-1 
    precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment
    companies (i.e., fair value accounting), when similar direct
    investments exist in the consolidated group and are measured on
    a basis inconsistent with that applied to investment companies.
    Additionally,
     SOP 07-1 
    precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment
    companies if the reporting entity does not distinguish through
    documented policies the nature and type of investments to be
    held in the investment companies from those made in the
    consolidated group where other accounting guidance is being
    applied. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. SOP
    7-1-1,  Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position 07-1,
     which delays indefinitely the effective date of SOP 07-1.
    The Company is closely monitoring further FASB developments.

In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FIN 39-1, 
     Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39
      ( FSP 39-1 ). 
     FSP 39-1 
    amends FIN No. 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to
    Certain Contracts  ( FIN 39 ), to permit a
    reporting entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the
    right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the
    obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair
    value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed
    with the same counterparty under the same master netting
    arrangement that have been offset in accordance with
    FIN 39.
     FSP 39-1 
    also amends FIN 39 for certain terminology modifications.
     FSP 39-1 
    applies to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007.
     FSP 39-1 
    will be applied retrospectively, unless it is impracticable to
    do so. Upon adoption of
     FSP 39-1, 
    the Company is permitted to change its accounting policy to
    offset or not offset fair value amounts recognized for
    derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. The
    adoption of
     FSP 39-1 
    will not have an impact on the Company s financial
    statements.

Business
    Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations   A
    Replacement of FASB Statement No. 141
     ( SFAS 141(r) ) and SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51
     ( SFAS 160 ) which are effective for fiscal
    years beginning after December 15, 2008. Under
    SFAS 141(r) and SFAS 160:

All business combinations (whether full, partial, or
     step  acquisitions) result in all assets and
    liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair
    value, with limited exceptions.

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred;
    restructuring costs associated with a business combination are
    generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition
    date.

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of
    equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Certain acquired contingent liabilities are recorded at fair
    value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at
    either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under
    existing guidance for non-acquired contingencies.

Changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income
    tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect
    income tax expense.

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority
    interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition
    date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities.

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests,
    the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair
    value and a gain or loss is recognized.

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a
    change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or
    losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining
    ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are
    recognized.

155

Table of Contents   

The pronouncements are effective for fiscal years beginning on
    or after December 15, 2008 and apply prospectively to
    business combinations. Presentation and disclosure requirements
    related to noncontrolling interests must be retrospectively
    applied. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
    SFAS 141(r) on its accounting for future acquisitions and
    the impact of SFAS 160 on its consolidated financial
    statements.

Other  

In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 140-3,
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase
    Financing Transactions  ( FSP 140-3 ). FSP 140-3
    provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a
    transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a
    single transaction or as two separate transactions. FSP 140-3 is
    effective prospectively for financial statements issued for
    fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company
    is currently evaluating the impact of FSP FAS 140-3 on its
    consolidated financial statements.

In January 2008, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation
    Issue E23,  Clarification of the Application of the Shortcut
    Method  ( Issue E23 ). Issue E23 amends
    SFAS 133 by permitting interest rate swaps to have a
    non-zero fair value at inception, as long as the difference
    between the transaction price (zero) and the fair value (exit
    price), as defined by SFAS 157, is solely attributable to a
    bid-ask spread. In addition, entities would not be precluded
    from assuming no ineffectiveness in a hedging relationship of
    interest rate risk involving an interest bearing asset or
    liability in situations where the hedged item is not recognized
    for accounting purposes until settlement date as long as the
    period between trade date and settlement date of the hedged item
    is consistent with generally established conventions in the
    marketplace. Issue E23 is effective for hedging relationships
    designated on or after January 1, 2008. The Company does
    not expect the adoption of Issue E23 to have a material impact
    on its consolidated financial statements.

In December 2007, the FASB ratified as final the consensus on
    EITF Issue
     No. 07-6, 
     Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate When the Agreement
    Includes a Buy-Sell Clause
      ( EITF 07-6 ). 
     EITF 07-6 
    addresses whether the existence of a buy-sell arrangement would
    preclude partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a
    jointly owned entity. The consensus concludes that the existence
    of a buy-sell clause does not necessarily preclude partial sale
    treatment under current guidance.
     EITF 07-6 
    applies prospectively to new arrangements entered into and
    assessments on existing transactions performed in fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not
    expect the adoption of
     EITF 07-6 
    to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
    statements.

In November 2007, the SEC issued SAB No. 109,
     Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value through
    Earnings  ( SAB 109 ), which amends
    SAB No. 105,  Application of Accounting Principles
    to Loan Commitments . SAB 109 provides guidance on:
    (i) incorporating expected net future cash flows when
    related to the associated servicing of a loan when measuring
    fair value; and (ii) broadening the SEC staff s view
    that internally-developed intangible assets should not be
    recorded as part of the fair value of a derivative loan
    commitment or to written loan commitments that are accounted for
    at fair value through earnings. Internally-developed intangible
    assets are not considered a component of the related
    instruments. SAB 109 is effective for derivative loan
    commitments issued or modified in fiscal quarters beginning
    after December 15, 2007. The adoption of SAB 109 will
    not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

Investments  

The Company s primary investment objective is to optimize,
    net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and
    risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that assets and
    liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. The
    Company is exposed to three primary sources of investment risk:

credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the
    continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of
    principal and interest;

interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow
    variability associated with changes in market interest
    rates; and

market valuation risk.

156

Table of Contents   

The Company manages risk through in-house fundamental analysis
    of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and
    real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk and
    market valuation risk through industry and issuer
    diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and
    agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market
    valuation risk through geographic, property type and product
    type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages
    interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management
    strategies; product design, such as the use of market value
    adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive
    monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of
    its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and
    dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The
    Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the
    management of credit and interest rate risks.

Composition
    of Investment Portfolio Results  

The following table illustrates the net investment income, net
    investment gains (losses), annualized yields on average ending
    assets and ending carrying value for each of the components of
    the Company s investment portfolio at:

157

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Yields are based on quarterly average asset carrying values,
    excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains (losses),
    and for yield calculation purposes, average assets exclude
    collateral associated with the Company s securities lending
    program. 

(2)  

Fixed maturity securities include $779 million,
    $759 million and $825 million in ending carrying value
    related to trading securities at December 31, 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include
    $50 million, $71 million and $14 million of
    investment income related to trading securities for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

(3)  

Investment income from mortgage and consumer loans includes
    prepayment fees. 

(4)  

Included in investment income from real estate and real estate
    joint ventures is $16 million, $94 million and
    $162 million related to discontinued operations for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
    Included in investment gains (losses) from real estate and real
    estate joint ventures is $13 million, $4.8 billion and
    $2.1 billion of gains related to discontinued operations
    for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. 

(5)  

Included in investment income from other invested assets are
    scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments
    that do not qualify for hedge accounting under
    SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments
    and Hedging , of $256 million, $290 million and
    $99 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. These amounts are excluded from
    investment gains (losses). Additionally, excluded from
    investment gains (losses) is $26 million, $6 million
    and ($13) million for the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, related to settlement
    payments on derivatives used to hedge  

158

Table of Contents   

interest rate and currency risk on policyholders account
    balances that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Such amounts
    are included within interest credited to policyholders account
    balances. 

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities Available-for-Sale   

Fixed maturity securities consisted principally of publicly
    traded and privately placed debt securities, and represented 70%
    and 73% of total cash and invested assets at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Based on estimated fair value,
    public fixed maturity securities represented
    $205.4 billion, or 85%, and $209.2 billion, or 86%, of
    total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. Based on estimated fair value, private fixed
    maturity securities represented $36.8 billion, or 15%, and
    $32.7 billion, or 14%, of total fixed maturity securities
    at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair
    values are estimated using present value or valuation
    techniques. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about the financial instruments, including estimates
    of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities.

The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the fixed
    maturity investments of insurers for regulatory reporting
    purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment
    categories called  NAIC designations.  The NAIC
    ratings are similar to the rating agency designations of the
    Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations
    ( NRSROs ) for marketable bonds. NAIC ratings 1 and 2
    include bonds generally considered investment grade (rated
     Baa3  or higher by Moody s, or rated
     BBB-  or higher by Standard   Poor s
    ( S P ) and Fitch Ratings Insurance Group
    ( Fitch )), by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings
    3 through 6 include bonds generally considered below investment
    grade (rated  Ba1  or lower by Moody s, or rated
     BB+  or lower by S P and Fitch).

The following table presents the Company s total fixed
    maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent
    ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on
    estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at:

(1)  

Amounts presented are based on rating agency designations.
    Comparisons between NAIC ratings and rating agency designations
    are published by the NAIC. The rating agency designations are
    based on availability and the midpoint of the applicable ratings
    among Moody s, S P and Fitch. If no rating is
    available from a rating agency, then the MetLife rating is used. 

The Company held fixed maturity securities at estimated fair
    values that were below investment grade or not rated by an
    independent rating agency that totaled $17.7 billion and
    $17.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. These securities had net unrealized gains (losses)
    of ($108) million and $627 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Non-income
    producing fixed maturity securities were $13 million and
    $16 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Net unrealized gains associated with non-income
    producing fixed maturity securities were $12 million and
    $4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

159

Table of Contents   

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity
    securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled
    sinking funds), are as follows:

Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have
    been included in the above table in the year of final
    contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from
    contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.

Sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities
    classified as available-for-sale are as follows:

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities, the
    percentage that each sector represents by the total fixed
    maturity securities holdings and by the total equity securities
    holdings at:

160

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and
    preferred stocks and mutual fund interests. Such securities
    include private equity securities with an estimated fair value
    of $599 million and $238 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. 

The Company is not exposed to any significant concentrations of
    credit risk in its equity securities portfolio. The Company is
    exposed to concentrations of credit risk related to
    U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of
    U.S. government corporations and agencies. Additionally, at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had exposure to
    fixed maturity securities backed by sub-prime mortgages with
    estimated fair values of $2.2 billion and
    $3.0 billion, respectively, and unrealized losses of
    $219 million and $5 million, respectively. These
    securities are classified within asset-backed securities in the
    immediately preceding table. At December 31, 2007, 32% have
    been guaranteed by financial guarantors, of which 55% was
    guaranteed by financial guarantors who remain Aaa rated in 2008.
    Overall, at December 31, 2007, $6.7 billion of the
    estimated fair value of the Company s fixed maturity
    securities were credit enhanced by financial guarantors of which
    $2.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.7 billion at
    December 31, 2007, are included within state and political
    subdivisions, corporate securities and asset-backed securities,
    respectively, and 80% were guaranteed by financial guarantors
    who remain Aaa rated in 2008.

Fixed Maturity and Equity Security
    Impairment.   The Company classifies all of its
    fixed maturity and equity securities as available-for-sale and
    marks them to market through other comprehensive income, except
    for non-marketable private equities, which are generally carried
    at cost and trading securities which are carried at fair value
    with subsequent changes in fair value recognized in net
    investment income. All securities with gross unrealized losses
    at the consolidated balance sheet date are subjected to the
    Company s process for identifying other-than-temporary
    impairments. The Company writes down to fair value securities
    that it deems to be other-than-temporarily impaired in the
    period the securities are deemed to be so impaired. The
    assessment of whether such impairment has occurred is based on
    management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair
    value. Management considers a wide range of factors, as
    described in    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Investments,  about the security
    issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the cause of the
    decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in
    assessing the prospects for near-term recovery.

161

Table of Contents   

Inherent in management s evaluation of the security are
    assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and
    its future earnings potential.

The Company s review of its fixed maturity and equity
    securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total
    gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. While
    all of these securities are monitored for potential impairment,
    the Company s experience indicates that the first two
    categories do not present as great a risk of impairment and,
    often, fair values recover over time as the factors that caused
    the declines improve.

The Company records impairments as investment losses and adjusts
    the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities
    accordingly. The Company does not change the revised cost basis
    for subsequent recoveries in value. Impairments of fixed
    maturity and equity securities were $106 million,
    $82 million and $64 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
    Company s credit-related impairments of fixed maturity and
    equity securities were $86 million, $82 million and
    $64 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company s three largest
    impairments totaled $19 million, $33 million and
    $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. The circumstances that gave rise to
    these impairments were financial restructurings, bankruptcy
    filings or difficult underlying operating environments for the
    entities concerned. During the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company sold or disposed of fixed
    maturity and equity securities at a loss that had a fair value
    of $46.8 billion, $70.3 billion and
    $93.9 billion, respectively. Gross losses excluding
    impairments for fixed maturity and equity securities were
    $1.2 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity and
    equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or
    20% or more at:

162

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $4.3 billion and
    $2.3 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to
    securities with an unrealized loss position of less than 20% of
    cost or amortized cost, which represented 4% and 2%,
    respectively, of the cost or amortized cost of such securities.

At December 31, 2007, $577 million of unrealized
    losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of
    20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 29% of
    the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such
    unrealized losses of $577 million, $555 million
    related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position
    for a period of less than six months. At December 31, 2006,
    $24 million of unrealized losses related to securities with
    an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized
    cost, which represented 30% of the cost or amortized cost of
    such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $24 million,
    $12 million related to securities that were in an
    unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months.

The Company held 30 fixed maturity and equity securities, each
    with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 of
    greater than $10 million. These securities represented 9%,
    or $459 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized
    loss on fixed maturity and equity securities. The Company held
    eight fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 of greater than
    $10 million. These securities represented 7%, or
    $169 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss
    on fixed maturity and equity securities.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had
    $4.9 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of gross
    unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity
    securities. These securities are concentrated, calculated as a
    percentage of gross unrealized loss, as follows:

As described previously, the Company performs a regular
    evaluation, on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its
    impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities
    are other-than-temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which
    the Company considers in its other-than-temporary impairment
    analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their
    value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized
    cost. The Company s intent and ability to hold securities
    considers broad portfolio management objectives such as
    asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment
    exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return
    focus. In following these portfolio management objectives,
    changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past

163

Table of Contents   

reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that
    were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are
    based on current conditions or the Company s need to shift
    the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives
    including liquidity needs or duration targets on asset/liability
    managed portfolios. The Company attempts to anticipate these
    types of changes and if a sale decision has been made on an
    impaired security and that security is not expected to recover
    prior to the expected time of sale, the security will be deemed
    other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale
    decision was made and an other-than-temporary impairment loss
    will be recognized.

Based upon the Company s current evaluation of the
    securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause
    of the decline being principally attributable to the general
    rise in interest rates during the holding period, and the
    Company s current intent and ability to hold the fixed
    maturity and equity securities with unrealized losses for a
    period of time sufficient for them to recover, the Company has
    concluded that the aforementioned securities are not
    other-than-temporarily impaired.

Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities.   The table
    below shows the major industry types that comprise the corporate
    fixed maturity holdings at:

(1)  

Includes U.S. dollar-denominated debt obligations of foreign
    obligors, and other foreign investments. 

The Company maintains a diversified corporate fixed maturity
    portfolio across industries and issuers. The portfolio does not
    have exposure to any single issuer in excess of 1% of the total
    invested assets of the portfolio. At December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Company s combined holdings in the ten issuers to
    which it had the greatest exposure totaled $7.8 billion and
    $6.8 billion, respectively, each less than 3% of the
    Company s total invested assets at such dates. The exposure
    to the largest single issuer of corporate fixed maturity
    securities held at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was
    $1.2 billion and $970 million, respectively.

The Company has hedged all of its material exposure to foreign
    currency risk in its corporate fixed maturity portfolio. In the
    Company s international insurance operations, both its
    assets and liabilities are generally denominated in local
    currencies.

Structured Securities.   The following table
    shows the types of structured securities the Company held at:

164

Table of Contents   

The majority of the residential mortgage-backed securities are
    guaranteed or otherwise supported by the Federal National
    Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    or the Government National Mortgage Association. Alternative
    residential mortgage loans ( Alt-A ) are a
    classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the
    borrower falls between prime and sub-prime. At December 31,
    2007 and 2006, $56.2 billion and $51.0 billion,
    respectively, or 99% for both, of the residential
    mortgage-backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA by Moody s,
    S P or Fitch. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    Company s Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities
    exposure was $6.4 billion and $4.8 billion,
    respectively, with an unrealized loss of $143 million and
    $4 million, respectively.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $15.5 billion and
    $13.7 billion, respectively, or 87% and 83%, respectively,
    of the commercial mortgage-backed securities were rated Aaa/AAA
    by Moody s, S P or Fitch.

The Company s asset-backed securities are diversified both
    by sector and by issuer. Credit card receivables and automobile
    receivables, accounting for about 36% and 11% of the total
    asset-backed holdings, respectively, constitute the largest
    exposures in the Company s asset-backed securities
    portfolio. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $6.0 billion
    and $7.9 billion, respectively, or 54% and 57%,
    respectively, of total asset-backed securities were rated
    Aaa/AAA by Moody s, S P or Fitch.

The Company s asset-backed securities included in the
    structured securities table above include exposure to sub-prime
    residential mortgage-backed securities. Sub-prime mortgage
    lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to
    customers with weak credit profiles. The Company is not an
    originator of below-prime mortgages. The Company s exposure
    exists through investment in asset-backed securities which are
    supported by sub-prime mortgages. The slowing U.S. housing
    market, greater use of affordable mortgage products, and relaxed
    underwriting standards for some originators of below-prime loans
    have recently led to higher delinquency and loss rates,
    especially within the 2006 vintage year. These factors have
    caused a pull-back in market liquidity and repricing of risk,
    which has led to an increase in unrealized losses from
    December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2007. Based upon the
    analysis of the Company s exposure to sub-prime mortgages
    through its investment in asset-backed securities, the Company
    expects to receive payments in accordance with the contractual
    terms of the securities.

The following table shows the Company s exposure to
    asset-backed securities supported by sub-prime mortgage loans by
    credit quality:

165

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had
    $2.2 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, of
    asset-backed securities supported by sub-prime mortgage loans as
    outlined in the tables above. At December 31, 2007,
    approximately 96% of the portfolio is rated Aaa, Aa or better of
    which 80% was in vintage year 2005 and prior. At
    December 31, 2006, approximately 91% of the portfolio was
    rated Aaa, Aa or better of which 87% was in vintage year 2005
    and prior. These older vintages benefit from better
    underwriting, improved enhancement levels and higher house price
    appreciation.

Asset-backed securities also include collateralized debt
    obligations backed by sub-prime mortgages at an aggregate cost
    of $64 million with a fair value of $48 million at
    December 31, 2007 and an aggregate cost of $93 million
    with a fair value of $92 million at December 31, 2006,
    which are not included in the tables above.

Assets
    on Deposit and Held in Trust and Assets Pledged as
    Collateral   

The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory
    agencies with a fair market value of $1.8 billion and
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity
    securities. Company securities held in trust to satisfy
    collateral requirements had a cost or amortized cost of
    $7.1 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, consisting primarily of fixed
    maturity and equity securities.

Certain of the Company s fixed maturity securities are
    pledged as collateral for various transactions as described in
        Composition of Investment Portfolio
    Results   Derivative Financial Instruments  
    Credit Risk.  Additionally, the Company has pledged certain
    of its fixed maturity securities in support of its debt and
    funding agreements as described in    
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   Other
    Commitments. 

Trading
    Securities   

The Company has a trading securities portfolio to support
    investment strategies that involve the active and frequent
    purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale
    agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for
    certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale
    agreement liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent
    changes in fair value recognized in net investment income
    related to fixed maturity securities.

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, trading securities were
    $779 million and $759 million, respectively, and
    liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the
    trading securities portfolio, which were included in other
    liabilities, were $107 million and $387 million,
    respectively. The Company had pledged $407 million and
    $614 million of its assets, primarily consisting of trading
    securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated
    with the short sale agreements in the trading securities
    portfolio at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition
    to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on
    the trading securities and the related short sale agreement
    liabilities included within net investment income totaled
    $50 million, $71 million and $14 million,
    respectively. Included within unrealized gains (losses) on such
    trading securities and short sale agreement

166

Table of Contents   

liabilities, are changes in fair value of ($4) million,
    $26 million and less than $1 million for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

As part of the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005,
    the Company acquired Travelers  investment in Tribeca
    Citigroup Investments Ltd. ( Tribeca ). Tribeca was a
    feeder fund investment structure whereby the feeder fund invests
    substantially all of its assets in the master fund, Tribeca
    Global Convertible Instruments Ltd. The primary investment
    objective of the master fund is to achieve enhanced
    risk-adjusted return by investing in domestic and foreign
    equities and equity-related securities utilizing such strategies
    as convertible securities arbitrage. At December 31, 2005,
    MetLife was the majority owner of the feeder fund and
    consolidated the fund within its consolidated financial
    statements. Net investment income related to the trading
    activities of Tribeca, which included interest and dividends
    earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and
    unrealized gains, was $12 million and $6 million for
    the six months ended December 31, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

During the second quarter of 2006, MetLife s ownership
    interests in Tribeca declined to a position whereby Tribeca is
    no longer consolidated and, as of June 30, 2006, was
    accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The equity
    method investment at December 31, 2006 of $82 million
    was included in other limited partnership interests. Net
    investment income related to the Company s equity method
    investment in Tribeca was $9 million for the six months
    ended December 31, 2006.

Mortgage
    and Consumer Loans   

The Company s mortgage and consumer loans are principally
    collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
    properties, as well as automobiles. Mortgage and consumer loans
    comprised 13.6% and 12.7% of the Company s total cash and
    invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans
    is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of
    premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances. The
    following table shows the carrying value of the Company s
    mortgage and consumer loans by type at:

167

Table of Contents   

Commercial Mortgage Loans.   The Company
    diversifies its commercial mortgage loans by both geographic
    region and property type. The following table presents the
    distribution across geographic regions and property types for
    commercial mortgage loans at:

The following table presents the scheduled maturities for the
    Company s commercial mortgage loans at:

Restructured, Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under
    Foreclosure.   The Company monitors its mortgage
    loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans
    that are restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent or
    under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent
    with those used in industry practice.

168

Table of Contents   

The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in
    which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the
    debtor s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the
    debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines
    potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in management s
    opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent. The
    Company defines delinquent mortgage loans, consistent with
    industry practice, as loans in which two or more interest or
    principal payments are past due. The Company defines mortgage
    loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure
    proceedings have formally commenced.

The Company reviews all mortgage loans on an ongoing basis.
    These reviews may include an analysis of the property financial
    statements and rent roll, lease rollover analysis, property
    inspections, market analysis and tenant creditworthiness.

The Company records valuation allowances for certain loans that
    it deems impaired. The Company s valuation allowances are
    established both on a loan specific basis for those loans where
    a property or market specific risk has been identified that
    could likely result in a future default, as well as for pools of
    loans with similar high risk characteristics where a property
    specific or market risk has not been identified. Loan specific
    valuation allowances are established for the excess carrying
    value of the mortgage loan over the present value of expected
    future cash flows discounted at the loan s original
    effective interest rate, the value of the loan s
    collateral, or the loan s market value if the loan is being
    sold. Valuation allowances for pools of loans are established
    based on property types and loan to value risk factors. The
    Company records valuation allowances as investment losses. The
    Company records subsequent adjustments to allowances as
    investment gains (losses).

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowance for commercial mortgage loans distributed by loan
    classification at:

(1)  

Amortized cost is the carrying value before valuation allowances. 

The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances
    for commercial mortgage loans for the:

Agricultural Mortgage Loans.   The Company
    diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans by both geographic
    region and product type.

Of the $10.5 billion of agricultural mortgage loans
    outstanding at December 31, 2007, 58%, were subject to rate
    resets prior to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans
    has been successfully renegotiated and remain outstanding to
    maturity. The process and policies for monitoring the
    agricultural mortgage loans and classifying them by performance
    status are generally the same as those for the commercial loans.

169

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowances for agricultural mortgage loans distributed by loan
    classification at:

(1)  

Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation
    allowances. 

The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances
    for agricultural mortgage loans for the:

Consumer Loans.   Consumer loans consist of
    residential mortgages and auto loans.

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowances for consumer loans distributed by loan classification
    at:

(1)  

Amortized cost is equal to carrying value before valuation
    allowances. 

The following table presents the changes in valuation allowances
    for consumer loans for the:

170

Table of Contents   

Real
    Estate Holdings   

The Company s real estate holdings consist of commercial
    properties located primarily in the United States. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value of the
    Company s real estate, real estate joint ventures and real
    estate held-for-sale was $6.8 billion and
    $5.0 billion, respectively, or 2.0% and 1.5%, of total cash
    and invested assets, respectively. The carrying value of real
    estate is stated at depreciated cost net of impairments and
    valuation allowances. The carrying value of real estate joint
    ventures is stated at the Company s equity in the real
    estate joint ventures net of impairments and valuation
    allowances.

The following table presents the carrying value of the
    Company s real estate holdings at:

The Company s carrying value of real estate held-for-sale
    of $172 million and $184 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, have been reduced by impairments of
    $1 million and $17 million at December 31, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.

The Company records real estate acquired upon foreclosure of
    commercial and agricultural mortgage loans at the lower of
    estimated fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan
    at the date of foreclosure.

Real estate holdings were categorized as follows:

The Company s real estate holdings are primarily located in
    the United States. At December 31, 2007, 22%, 11%, 10% and
    9% of the Company s real estate holdings were located in
    California, New York, Florida and Texas, respectively.

Certain of the Company s investments in real estate joint
    ventures meet the definition of a VIE under FIN 46(r). See
       Composition of Investment Portfolio
    Results   Variable Interest Entities. 

In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company sold its Peter Cooper
    Village and Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New
    York for $5.4 billion. The Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties together

171

Table of Contents   

make up the largest apartment complex in Manhattan, New York
    totaling over 11,000 units, spread over 80 contiguous
    acres. The properties were owned by the Holding Company s
    subsidiary, Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company. The sale
    resulted in a gain of $3 billion, net of income tax, and is
    included in income from discontinued operations in the
    consolidated statements of income.

In the second quarter of 2005, the Company sold its One Madison
    Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York for
    $918 million and $1.72 billion, respectively,
    resulting in gains, net of income tax, of $431 million and
    $762 million, respectively, and is included in income from
    discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of
    income. In connection with the sale of the 200 Park Avenue
    property, the Company has retained rights to existing signage
    and is leasing space for associates in the property for
    20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205.

Leveraged
    Leases   

Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested
    assets, consisted of the following:

The Company s deferred income tax liability related to
    leveraged leases was $1.0 billion and $670 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The rental
    receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic
    installments. The payment periods range from one to
    15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as
    30 years.

The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases
    are as follows:

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that make private equity investments in companies in the
    United States and overseas) was $6.2 billion and
    $4.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Included within other limited partnership
    interests at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are
    $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of hedge
    funds. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005, net investment income from other limited partnership
    interests included $89 million, $98 million and
    $24 million, respectively, related to hedge funds. The
    Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments in
    limited partnership interests in which it has more than a minor
    interest, has influence over the partnership s operating
    and financial policies, but does not have a controlling interest
    and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the cost
    method for minor interest investments and when it has virtually
    no influence over the partnership s operating and financial
    policies. The Company s investments in other limited
    partnership interests represented 1.8% and 1.4% of cash and
    invested assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Management anticipates that investment income and the related
    yields on other limited partnership interests may decline during
    2008 due to increased volatility in the equity and credit
    markets during 2007.

172

Table of Contents   

Some of the Company s investments in other limited
    partnership interests meet the definition of a VIE under
    FIN 46(r). See    Composition of Investment
    Portfolio Results   Variable Interest Entities. 

Other
    Invested Assets   

The Company s other invested assets consisted principally
    of leveraged leases of $2.2 billion and $1.3 billion,
    funds withheld at interest of $4.5 billion and
    $4.0 billion, and standalone derivatives with positive fair
    values and the fair value of embedded derivatives related to
    funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts of
    $4.1 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. The leveraged leases are recorded
    net of non-recourse debt. The Company participates in lease
    transactions, which are diversified by industry, asset type and
    geographic area. The Company regularly reviews residual values
    and writes down residuals to expected values as needed. Funds
    withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by ceding
    companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For
    agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain
    agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the
    reinsured policies equal to the net statutory reserves are
    withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding company.
    Interest accrues to these funds withheld at rates defined by the
    treaty terms and may be contractually specified or directly
    related to the investment portfolio. The Company s other
    invested assets represented 3.7% and 3.2% of cash and invested
    assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including swaps,
    forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage its various
    risks. Additionally, the Company uses derivatives to
    synthetically create investments as permitted by its insurance
    subsidiaries  Derivatives Use Plans approved by the
    applicable state insurance departments.

The following table presents the notional amount and current
    market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at:

The above table does not include notional amounts for equity
    futures, equity variance swaps, and equity options. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 4,658 and
    2,749 equity futures, respectively. Fair values of equity
    futures are included in financial futures in the preceding
    table. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned
    695,485 and 225,000 equity variance swaps, respectively. Fair
    values of equity variance swaps are included in financial
    forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Company owned 77,374,937 and 74,864,483 equity
    options, respectively. Fair values of equity options are
    included in options in the preceding table.

173

Table of Contents   

Credit Risk.   The Company may be exposed to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to derivative financial instruments. Generally,
    the current credit exposure of the Company s derivative
    contracts is limited to the fair value at the reporting date.
    The credit exposure of the Company s derivative
    transactions is represented by the fair value of contracts with
    a net positive fair value at the reporting date.

The Company manages its credit risk related to over-the-counter
    derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
    counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through
    the use of master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due
    date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are
    effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked
    to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to such derivative instruments.

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which
    require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in
    connection with its derivative instruments. As of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was obligated to
    return cash collateral under its control of $833 million
    and $428 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash
    collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents and the
    obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral
    under securities loaned and other transactions in the
    consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Company had also accepted collateral consisting of
    various securities with a fair market value of $678 million
    and $453 million, respectively, which are held in separate
    custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell
    or repledge this collateral, but as of December 31, 2007
    and 2006, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged.

As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company provided
    collateral of $162 million and $80 million,
    respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities in
    the consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company has
    exchange traded futures, which require the pledging of
    collateral. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company
    pledged collateral of $167 million and $105 million,
    respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities.
    The counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge
    this collateral.

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The following table presents the total assets of and maximum
    exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has
    concluded that: (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which
    are consolidated in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements at December 31, 2007; and (ii) it holds
    significant variable interests but it is not the primary
    beneficiary and which have not been consolidated:

(1)  

The assets of the asset-backed securitizations and
    collateralized debt obligations are reflected at fair value. The
    assets of the real estate joint ventures, other limited
    partnership interests, trust preferred securities and other
    investments are reflected at the carrying amounts at which such
    assets would have been reflected on the Company s
    consolidated balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE
    from the date of its initial investment in the entity. 

174

Table of Contents   

(2)  

The maximum exposure to loss relating to the asset-backed
    securitizations and collateralized debt obligations is equal to
    the carrying amounts of retained interests. In addition, the
    Company provides collateral management services for certain of
    these structures for which it collects a management fee. The
    maximum exposure to loss relating to real estate joint ventures,
    other limited partnership interests, trust preferred securities
    and other investments is equal to the carrying amounts plus any
    unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other
    partners. Such a maximum loss would be expected to occur only
    upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. 

(3)  

Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other
    ventures which engage in the acquisition, development,
    management and disposal of real estate investments. 

(4)  

Other limited partnership interests include partnerships
    established for the purpose of investing in public and private
    debt and equity securities. 

(5)  

Trust preferred securities are complex, uniquely structured
    investments which contain features of both equity and debt, may
    have an extended or no stated maturity, and may be callable at
    the issuer s option after a defined period of time. 

(6)  

Other investments include securities that are not trust
    preferred securities, asset-backed securitizations or
    collateralized debt obligations. 

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity and
    equity securities, are loaned to third parties, primarily major
    brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the
    fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained
    as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized
    cost of $41.1 billion and $43.3 billion and an
    estimated fair value of $42.1 billion and
    $44.1 billion were on loan under the program at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Securities loaned
    under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the
    transferee. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its
    control of $43.3 billion and $45.4 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Security
    collateral of $40 million and $100 million on deposit
    from customers in connection with the securities lending
    transactions at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
    may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the
    consolidated financial statements.

Separate
    Accounts   

The Company held $160.2 billion and $144.4 billion in
    separate accounts, for which the Company does not bear
    investment risk, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The Company manages each separate account s
    assets in accordance with the prescribed investment policy that
    applies to that specific separate account. The Company
    establishes separate accounts on a single client and
    multi-client commingled basis in compliance with insurance laws.
    Effective with the adoption of
     SOP 03-1, 
     Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain
    Nontraditional Long-Duration Contracts and for Separate
    Accounts , on January 1, 2004, the Company reported
    separately, as assets and liabilities, investments held in
    separate accounts and liabilities of the separate accounts if:

such separate accounts are legally recognized;

assets supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated
    from the Company s general account liabilities;

investments are directed by the contractholder; and

all investment performance, net of contract fees and
    assessments, is passed through to the contractholder.

The Company reports separate account assets meeting such
    criteria at their fair value. Investment performance (including
    investment income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in
    unrealized gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts
    credited to contractholders of such separate accounts are offset
    within the same line in the consolidated statements of income.

The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate
    accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy
    administration fees, investment management fees and surrender
    charges. Separate accounts not

175

Table of Contents   

meeting the above criteria are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the Company s general account assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the
    market risk associated with its invested assets and interest
    rate sensitive insurance contracts. It has developed an
    integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through
    its Corporate Risk Management Department, ALM Committees and
    additional specialists at the business segment level. The
    Company has established and implemented comprehensive policies
    and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level
    to minimize the effects of potential market volatility.

The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate,
    equity market and foreign currency exchange risks. As a result
    of that analysis, the Company has determined that the fair value
    of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially
    exposed to changes in interest rates. The equity and foreign
    currency portfolios do not expose the Company to material market
    risks (as described below).

MetLife generally uses option adjusted duration to manage
    interest rate risk and the methods and assumptions used are
    generally consistent with those used by the Company in 2006. The
    Company analyzes interest rate risk using various models,
    including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that
    forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting
    investments, including derivative instruments. The Company uses
    a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market,
    and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of
    derivative instruments.

Market
    Risk Exposures  

The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance
    operations and investment activities. For purposes of this
    disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of
    loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market
    prices and foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rates.   The Company s exposure to
    interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of
    fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate
    sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities include
    U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by
    government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed
    securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in
    medium- and long-term treasury rates. The interest rate
    sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include
    GICs and annuities, which have the same type of interest rate
    exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as fixed
    maturity securities. The Company employs product design, pricing
    and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse
    effects of interest rate movements. Product design and pricing
    strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions
    on withdrawals in some products. Asset/liability management
    strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of
    securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment
    restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent
    monitoring of the pricing of the Company s products in
    order to better match the duration of the assets and the
    liabilities they support. See  Risk Factors  
    Changes in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability. 

Equity Market Prices.   The Company s
    investments in equity securities and equity-based fixed maturity
    securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain
    liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity
    performance. It manages this risk on an integrated basis with
    other risks through its asset/liability management strategies.
    The Company also manages equity market price risk through
    industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques
    and the use of derivatives.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.   The
    Company s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates against the U.S. dollar results from its
    holdings in
     non-U.S. dollar 
    denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and
    liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign
    subsidiaries. The principal currencies that create foreign
    currency exchange rate risk in the Company s investment
    portfolios are the Euro, the Canadian dollar and the British
    pound. The Company mitigates its fixed maturity securities 
    foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of
    foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. Through its
    investments in foreign subsidiaries, the Company is primarily
    exposed to the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Australian
    dollar, the

176

Table of Contents   

Argentinean peso, the South Korean won, the Chilean peso, the
    Taiwanese dollar and the Japanese yen. The Company has matched
    substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its
    foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency
    assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate
    fluctuation. Selectively, the Company uses U.S. dollar
    assets to support certain long duration foreign currency
    liabilities. Additionally, in some countries, local surplus is
    held entirely or in part in U.S. dollar assets which
    further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk.

Risk
    Management  

Corporate Risk Management.   MetLife has
    established several financial and non-financial senior
    management committees as part of its risk management process.
    These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve
    asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate
    corporate business standards.

MetLife also has a separate Corporate Risk Management
    Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and
    reports to MetLife s Chief Financial Officer. The Corporate
    Risk Management Department s primary responsibilities
    consist of:

implementing a Board of Directors-approved corporate risk
    framework, which outlines the Company s approach for
    managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis;

developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and
    monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk
    framework;

establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and

reporting on a periodic basis to the Governance Committee of the
    Holding Company s Board of Directors and various financial
    and non-financial senior management committees.

Asset/Liability Management.   The Company
    actively manages its assets using an approach that balances
    quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity
    and investment return. The goals of the investment process are
    to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income
    and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets
    and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis.
    The asset/liability management process is the shared
    responsibility of the Portfolio Management Unit, the Financial
    Management and Oversight Asset/Liability Management Unit, and
    the operating business segments under the supervision of the
    various product line specific ALM Committees. The ALM
    Committees  duties include reviewing and approving target
    portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment
    guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the
    asset/liability management process. The portfolio managers and
    asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a
    day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective
    investing activities, implement the goals and objectives
    established by the ALM Committees.

Each of MetLife s business segments has an asset/liability
    officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment
    department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge
    strategy and liability management issues. MetLife establishes
    target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which
    represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its
    liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. These strategies
    are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such
    as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity,
    liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality.

To manage interest rate risk, the Company performs periodic
    projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the
    potential sensitivity of its investments and liabilities to
    interest rate movements. These projections involve evaluating
    the potential gain or loss on most of the Company s
    in-force business under various increasing and decreasing
    interest rate environments. Department regulations require that
    MetLife perform some of these analyses annually as part of
    MetLife s review of the sufficiency of its regulatory
    reserves. For several of its legal entities, the Company
    maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for
    the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of
    investment income to product lines. For each segment, invested
    assets greater than or equal to the GAAP liabilities less the
    DAC asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment
    are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment.
    The operating segments may reflect differences in legal

177

Table of Contents   

entity, statutory line of business and any product market
    characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy
    with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the
    invested assets. Certain smaller entities make use of
    unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy
    reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those
    entities. The Company measures relative sensitivities of the
    value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key
    assumptions utilizing Company models. These models reflect
    specific product characteristics and include assumptions based
    on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality
    and interest crediting rates. In addition, these models include
    asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments,
    sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage
    prepayments and defaults.

Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are
    also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and
    liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the
    duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all
    policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set
    indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or
    dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration constraint based
    on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that
    portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity
    of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and
    non-medical health products, the Company may support such
    liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies.

Hedging Activities.   To reduce interest rate
    risk, MetLife s risk management strategies incorporate the
    use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall
    duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios
    to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its
    liabilities. Such instruments include financial futures,
    financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps,
    caps, floors and options. MetLife also uses foreign currency
    swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated
    fixed income investments.

Risk
    Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis  

The Company measures market risk related to its holdings of
    invested assets and other financial instruments, including
    certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on
    changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency
    exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. This analysis
    estimates the potential changes in fair value based on a
    hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest
    rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. The
    Company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in
    these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the
    near-term. In performing this analysis, the Company used market
    rates at December 31, 2007 to re-price its invested assets
    and other financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis
    separately calculated each of MetLife s market risk
    exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign
    currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non-trading
    invested assets and other financial instruments. The sensitivity
    analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings
    described above. The Company modeled the impact of changes in
    market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested
    assets as follows:

the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures
    resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest
    rates;

the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change
    (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and

the U.S. dollar equivalent balances of the Company s
    currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in
    currency exchange rates.

The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed
    as predictive of the Company s future financial
    performance. The Company cannot assure that its actual losses in
    any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the
    table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity analysis
    include:

the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and
    parameters established in creating the related sensitivity
    analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;

for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported
    earnings may be materially different from the change in market
    values;

the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and
    liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and

the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities
    remains unchanged throughout the year.

178

Table of Contents   

Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not
    substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate
    risk and asset/liability management personnel. Based on its
    analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in
    market rates and prices, MetLife has determined that such a
    change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of
    its interest rate sensitive invested assets. The equity and
    foreign currency portfolios do not expose the Company to
    material market risk.

The table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of
    the Company s interest rate sensitive financial instruments
    at December 31, 2007. In addition, the potential loss with
    respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the
    Company s equity price sensitive positions at
    December 31, 2007 is set forth in the table below.

The potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure
    of the Company s portfolio at December 31, 2007 was:

179

Table of Contents   

The table below provides additional detail regarding the
    potential loss in fair value of the Company s non-trading
    interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31,
    2007 by type of asset or liability:

This quantitative measure of risk has decreased by
    $805 million, or 13%, to $5,170 million at
    December 31, 2007 from $5,975 million at
    December 31, 2006. A decrease in the yield curve has
    decreased our sensitivity by $1.5 billion. This decrease
    was partially offset by $140 million due to increased asset
    size, $270 million due to increased derivative usage and
    $285 million due to duration charges and other.

In addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset
    liability management program, the Company also performs an
    analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates,
    including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments.
    As of December 31, 2007, a hypothetical instantaneous 10%
    decrease in interest rates applied to the Company s
    liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would
    reduce the fair value of equity by $12 million. Management
    does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity
    strain on the Company.

180

Table of Contents   

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules  

181

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules. These consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
    our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
    statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit
    also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
    the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
    our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and
    2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
    opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
    relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
    a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of
    accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income taxes
    as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1,
    2007, and changed its method of accounting for defined benefit
    pension and other postretirement plans as required by accounting
    guidance adopted on December 31, 2006.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission, and our report, dated February 28, 2008,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting.

/s/  DELOITTE   TOUCHE
     LLP

DELOITTE   TOUCHE  LLP

New York, New York

February 28, 2008

F-1

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

December 31, 2007 and 2006 

(In millions, except share and per share data) 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-2

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Consolidated
    Statements of Income 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005  

(In
    millions, except per share data)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-3

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Consolidated
    Statements of Stockholders  Equity 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005  

(In
    millions)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-4

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005  

(In
    millions)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005  

(In
    millions)  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

1.    

Business,
    Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Business   

MetLife  or the  Company  refers to
    MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the
     Holding Company ), and its subsidiaries, including
    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). MetLife
    is a leading provider of insurance and other financial services
    with operations throughout the United States and the regions of
    Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its domestic
    and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife offers
    life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners insurance,
    retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as
    well as group insurance, reinsurance and retirement  
    savings products and services to corporations and other
    institutions.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of (i) the Holding Company and its subsidiaries;
    (ii) partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company
    has control; and (iii) variable interest entities
    ( VIEs ) for which the Company is deemed to be the
    primary beneficiary. Closed block assets, liabilities, revenues
    and expenses are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
    outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular
    item. See Note 9. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

The Company uses the equity method of accounting for investments
    in equity securities in which it has more than a 20% interest
    and for real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests in which it has more than a minor equity interest or
    more than a minor influence over the joint venture s or
    partnership s operations, but does not have a controlling
    interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses
    the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate
    joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which
    it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over
    the joint venture s or partnership s operations.

Minority interest related to consolidated entities included in
    other liabilities was $1.8 billion and $1.4 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Certain amounts in the prior year periods  consolidated
    financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the
    2007 presentation. Such reclassifications include
    $850 million relating to long-term debt reclassified to
    collateral financing arrangements on the consolidated balance
    sheet at December 31, 2006 and the consolidated statement
    of cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2006. See
    Note 11 for a description of the transaction. See also
    Note 23 for reclassifications related to discontinued
    operations.

On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the
    acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding
    certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup
    Inc. ( Citigroup ), and substantially all of
    Citigroup s international insurance businesses
    (collectively,  Travelers ), which is described in
    Note 2. The acquisition was accounted for using the
    purchase method of accounting. Travelers  assets,
    liabilities and results of operations were included in the
    Company s results beginning July 1, 2005. The
    accounting policies of Travelers were conformed to those of
    MetLife upon acquisition.

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial
    statements. The most critical estimates include those used in
    determining:

(i) 

the fair value of investments in the absence of quoted market
    values;

(ii) 

investment impairments;

F-7

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(iii) 

the recognition of income on certain investments;

(iv) 

the application of the consolidation rules to certain
    investments;

(v) 

the fair value of and accounting for derivatives;

(vi) 

the capitalization and amortization of deferred policy
    acquisition costs ( DAC ) and the establishment and
    amortization of value of business acquired ( VOBA 

(vii) 

the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;

(viii) 

the liability for future policyholder benefits;

(ix) 

accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax
    assets;

(x) 

accounting for reinsurance transactions;

(xi) 

accounting for employee benefit plans; and

(xii) 

the liability for litigation and regulatory matters.

A description of such critical estimates is incorporated within
    the discussion of the related accounting policies which follow.
    The application of purchase accounting requires the use of
    estimation techniques in determining the fair values of assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed   the most
    significant of which relate to the aforementioned critical
    estimates. In applying these policies, management makes
    subjective and complex judgments that frequently require
    estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of
    these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in
    the insurance and financial services industries; others are
    specific to the Company s businesses and operations. Actual
    results could differ from these estimates.

Investments  

The Company s principal investments are in fixed maturity
    and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, policy
    loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnerships, short-term investments, and other invested assets.
    The accounting policies related to each are as follows:

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.   The
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are
    classified as
     available-for-sale, 
    except for trading securities, and are reported at their
    estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on
    these securities are recorded as a separate component of other
    comprehensive income or loss, net of policyholder related
    amounts and deferred income taxes. All security transactions are
    recorded on a trade date basis. Investment gains and losses on
    sales of securities are determined on a specific identification
    basis.

Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recorded when
    earned using an effective yield method giving effect to
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends
    on equity securities are recorded when declared. These dividends
    and interest income are recorded as part of net investment
    income.

Included within fixed maturity securities are loan-backed
    securities including mortgage-backed and asset-backed
    securities. Amortization of the premium or discount from the
    purchase of these securities considers the estimated timing and
    amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment
    experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are
    recalculated when differences arise between the prepayments
    originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and
    currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for single class
    and multi-class mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are
    obtained from broker-dealer survey values or internal estimates.
    For credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities
    and certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield
    is recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, the effective yield
    is recalculated on a retrospective basis.

F-8

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for
    impairments in value deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    in the period in which the determination is made. These
    impairments are included within net investment gains (losses)
    and the cost basis of the fixed maturity and equity securities
    is reduced accordingly. The Company does not change the revised
    cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on
    management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair
    value. The Company s review of its fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%;
    (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for
    less than six months; and (iii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.

Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about
    the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions
    and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
    earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the
    impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:
    (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market
    value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the
    potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
    experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the
    potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources; (vi) the Company s
    ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time
    sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount
    equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost (See also
    Note 3); (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash
    flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and
    (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations
    and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

The Company purchases and receives beneficial interests in
    special purpose entities ( SPEs ), which enhance the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio
    principally by providing equity-based returns on debt
    securities. These investments are generally made through
    structured notes and similar instruments (collectively,
     Structured Investment Transactions ). The Company has
    not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the
    SPEs and its exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value
    of the beneficial interests in the SPEs. The Company does not
    consolidate such SPEs as it has determined it is not the primary
    beneficiary. These Structured Investment Transactions are
    included in fixed maturity securities and their income is
    generally recognized using the retrospective interest method.
    Impairments of these investments are included in net investment
    gains (losses).

Trading Securities.   The Company s trading
    securities portfolio, principally consisting of fixed maturity
    and equity securities, supports investment strategies that
    involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities
    and the execution of short sale agreements, and supports asset
    and liability matching strategies for certain insurance
    products. Trading securities and short sale agreement
    liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes
    in fair value recognized in net investment income. Related
    dividends and investment income are also included in net
    investment income.

Securities Lending.   Securities loaned
    transactions are treated as financing arrangements and are
    recorded at the amount of cash received. The Company obtains
    collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the fair value of the
    securities loaned. The Company monitors the market value of the
    securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral
    obtained as necessary. Substantially all of the Company s
    securities loaned transactions are with large brokerage firms.
    Income and expenses associated with securities loaned

F-9

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

transactions are reported as investment income and investment
    expense, respectively, within net investment income.

Mortgage and Consumer Loans.   Mortgage and
    consumer loans are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted
    for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or
    expenses, net of valuation allowances. Interest income is
    accrued on the principal amount of the loan based on the
    loan s contractual interest rate. Amortization of premiums
    and discounts is recorded using the effective yield method.
    Interest income, amortization of premiums and discounts, and
    prepayment fees are reported in net investment income. Loans are
    considered to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon
    current information and events, the Company will be unable to
    collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan
    agreement. Valuation allowances are established for the excess
    carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected
    future cash flows discounted at the loan s original
    effective interest rate, the value of the loan s collateral
    if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise
    collateral dependent, or the loan s market value if the
    loan is being sold. The Company also establishes allowances for
    loan losses when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans
    with similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on
    similar property types or loan to value risk factors. A loss
    contingency exists when the likelihood that a future event will
    occur is probable based on past events. Interest income earned
    on impaired loans is accrued on the principal amount of the loan
    based on the loan s contractual interest rate. However,
    interest ceases to be accrued for loans on which interest is
    generally more than 60 days past due
     and/or  where
    the collection of interest is not considered probable. Cash
    receipts on such impaired loans are recorded as a reduction of
    the recorded investment. Gains and losses from the sale of loans
    and changes in valuation allowances are reported in net
    investment gains (losses).

Policy Loans.   Policy loans are stated at
    unpaid principal balances. Interest income on such loans is
    recorded as earned using the contractually agreed upon interest
    rate. Generally, interest is capitalized on the policy s
    anniversary date.

Real Estate.   Real estate
     held-for-investment, 
    including related improvements, is stated at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset
    (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income is recognized on
    a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases.
    The Company classifies a property as
     held-for-sale 
    if it commits to a plan to sell a property within one year and
    actively markets the property in its current condition for a
    price that is reasonable in comparison to its fair value. The
    Company classifies the results of operations and the gain or
    loss on sale of a property that either has been disposed of or
    classified as
     held-for-sale 
    as discontinued operations, if the ongoing operations of the
    property will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the
    Company and if the Company will not have any significant
    continuing involvement in the operations of the property after
    the sale. Real estate
     held-for-sale 
    is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or fair value less
    expected disposition costs. Real estate is not depreciated while
    it is classified as
     held-for-sale. 
    The Company periodically reviews its properties
     held-for-investment 
    for impairment and tests properties for recoverability whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount
    of the asset may not be recoverable and the carrying value of
    the property exceeds its fair value. Properties whose carrying
    values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows are
    written down to their fair value, with the impairment loss
    included in net investment gains (losses). Impairment losses are
    based upon the estimated fair value of real estate, which is
    generally computed using the present value of expected future
    cash flows from the real estate discounted at a rate
    commensurate with the underlying risks. Real estate acquired
    upon foreclosure of commercial and agricultural mortgage loans
    is recorded at the lower of estimated fair value or the carrying
    value of the mortgage loan at the date of foreclosure.

Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests.   The Company uses the equity method of
    accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests in which it has more than a
    minor equity interest or more than a minor influence over the
    joint ventures or

F-10

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

partnership s operations, but does not have a controlling
    interest and is not the primary beneficiary. The Company uses
    the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate
    joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which
    it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over
    the joint ventures or the partnership s operations. In
    addition to the investees performing regular evaluations for the
    impairment of underlying investments, the Company routinely
    evaluates its investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnerships for impairments. For its cost method
    investments, the Company follows an impairment analysis which is
    similar to the process followed for its fixed maturity and
    equity securities as described previously. For equity method
    investees, the Company considers financial and other information
    provided by the investee, other known information and inherent
    risks in the underlying investments, as well as future capital
    commitments, in determining whether an impairment has occurred.
    When an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment is deemed to have occurred, the Company records a
    realized capital loss within net investment gains (losses) to
    record the investment at its fair value.

Short-term Investments.   Short-term investments
    include investments with remaining maturities of one year or
    less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition
    and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair value.

Other Invested Assets.   Other invested assets
    consist principally of leveraged leases and funds withheld at
    interest. Leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse
    debt. The Company participates in lease transactions which are
    diversified by industry, asset type and geographic area. The
    Company recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying
    the leveraged lease s estimated rate of return to the net
    investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual
    values and impairs them to expected values as needed.

Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by
    ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. For
    agreements written on a modified coinsurance basis and certain
    agreements written on a coinsurance basis, assets supporting the
    reinsured policies, and equal to the net statutory reserves, are
    withheld and continue to be legally owned by the ceding
    companies. The Company records a funds withheld receivable
    rather than the underlying investments. The Company recognizes
    interest on funds withheld at rates defined by the treaty terms
    which may be contractually specified or directly related to the
    investment portfolio and records it in net investment income.

Other invested assets also include stand-alone derivatives with
    positive fair values and the fair value of embedded derivatives
    related to funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts.

Estimates and Uncertainties.   The
    Company s investments are exposed to three primary sources
    of risk: credit, interest rate and market valuation. The
    financial statement risks, stemming from such investment risks,
    are those associated with the recognition of impairments, the
    recognition of income on certain investments, and the
    determination of fair values.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments,
    as applicable, are described previously by investment type. The
    determination of such allowances and impairments is highly
    subjective and is based upon the Company s periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly
    and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations
    as such evaluations are revised.

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities, certain investment transactions,
    trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market conditions,
    which could result in prepayments and changes in amounts to be
    earned.

The fair values of publicly held fixed maturity securities and
    publicly held equity securities are based on quoted market
    prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However,
    in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as
    for private fixed maturity securities, fair values are estimated
    using present

F-11

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

value or valuation techniques. The determination of fair values
    is based on: (i) valuation methodologies;
    (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and
    (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

Additionally, when the Company enters into certain structured
    investment transactions, real estate joint ventures and other
    limited partnerships for which the Company may be deemed to be
    the primary beneficiary under Financial Accounting Standards
    Board ( FASB ) Interpretation ( FIN )
    No. 46(r),  Consolidation of Variable Interest
    Entities   An Interpretation of ARB No. 51 , it may
    be required to consolidate such investments. The accounting
    rules for the determination of the primary beneficiary are
    complex and require evaluation of the contractual rights and
    obligations associated with each party involved in the entity,
    an estimate of the entity s expected losses and expected
    residual returns and the allocation of such estimates to each
    party.

The use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the
    determination of the fair value of investments, the timing and
    amount of impairments, the recognition of income, or
    consolidation of investments may have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived
    from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or other
    financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or
    contracted in the
     over-the-counter 
    market. The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including
    swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage the
    risk associated with variability in cash flows or changes in
    fair values related to the Company s financial instruments.
    The Company also uses derivative instruments to hedge its
    currency exposure associated with net investments in certain
    foreign operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit
    derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically
    replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily
    available in the cash market. The Company also purchases certain
    securities, issues certain insurance policies and investment
    contracts and engages in certain reinsurance contracts that have
    embedded derivatives.

Freestanding derivatives are carried on the Company s
    consolidated balance sheet either as assets within other
    invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at
    fair value as determined by quoted market prices or through the
    use of pricing models. The determination of fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on valuation
    methodologies and assumptions deemed appropriate under the
    circumstances. Derivative valuations can be affected by changes
    in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, financial
    indices, credit spreads, market volatility, and liquidity.
    Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and
    assumptions used in pricing models. Such assumptions include
    estimates of volatility, interest rates, foreign currency
    exchange rates, other financial indices and credit ratings.
    Essential to the analysis of the fair value is risk of
    counterparty default. The use of different assumptions may have
    a material effect on the estimated derivative fair value
    amounts, as well as the amount of reported net income.

If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its
    use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting,
    changes in the fair value of the derivative are generally
    reported in net investment gains (losses) except for those
    (i) in policyholder benefits and claims for economic hedges
    of liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company, and (ii) in net investment income
    for economic hedges of equity method investments in joint
    ventures, or for all derivatives held in relation to the trading
    portfolios. The fluctuations in fair

F-12

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

value of derivatives which have not been designated for hedge
    accounting can result in significant volatility in net income.

To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging
    relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management
    objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction,
    as well as its designation of the hedge as either (i) a
    hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an
    unrecognized firm commitment ( fair value hedge 
    (ii) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or of the
    variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
    recognized asset or liability ( cash flow hedge  or
    (iii) a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
    In this documentation, the Company sets forth how the hedging
    instrument is expected to hedge the designated risks related to
    the hedged item and sets forth the method that will be used to
    retrospectively and prospectively assess the hedging
    instrument s effectiveness and the method which will be
    used to measure ineffectiveness. A derivative designated as a
    hedging instrument must be assessed as being highly effective in
    offsetting the designated risk of the hedged item. Hedge
    effectiveness is formally assessed at inception and periodically
    throughout the life of the designated hedging relationship.
    Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of
    ineffectiveness are also subject to interpretation and
    estimation and different interpretations or estimates may have a
    material effect on the amount reported in net income.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting standards continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under these accounting standards. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company from that
    previously reported.

Under a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the
    hedging derivative, including amounts measured as
    ineffectiveness, and changes in the fair value of the hedged
    item related to the designated risk being hedged, are reported
    within net investment gains (losses). The fair values of the
    hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals that are
    separately reported in the consolidated statement of income
    within interest income or interest expense to match the location
    of the hedged item.

Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the
    hedging derivative measured as effective are reported within
    other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of
    stockholders  equity, and the deferred gains or losses on
    the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement
    of income when the Company s earnings are affected by the
    variability in cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the
    fair value of the hedging instrument measured as ineffectiveness
    are reported within net investment gains (losses). The fair
    values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any accruals
    that are separately reported in the consolidated statement of
    income within interest income or interest expense to match the
    location of the hedged item.

In a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, changes
    in the fair value of the hedging derivative that are measured as
    effective are reported within other comprehensive income (loss)
    consistent with the translation adjustment for the hedged net
    investment in the foreign operation. Changes in the fair value
    of the hedging instrument measured as ineffectiveness are
    reported within net investment gains (losses).

The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when:
    (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer
    highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash
    flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative expires, is
    sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no longer
    probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will occur;
    (iv) a hedged firm commitment no longer meets the
    definition of a firm commitment; or (v) the derivative is
    de-designated as a hedging instrument.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined
    that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting
    changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item, the
    derivative continues to be carried on the consolidated balance
    sheet at its fair value, with changes in fair value recognized
    currently in net investment gains

F-13

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(losses). The carrying value of the hedged recognized asset or
    liability under a fair value hedge is no longer adjusted for
    changes in its fair value due to the hedged risk, and the
    cumulative adjustment to its carrying value is amortized into
    income over the remaining life of the hedged item. Provided the
    hedged forecasted transaction is still probable of occurrence,
    the changes in fair value of derivatives recorded in other
    comprehensive income (loss) related to discontinued cash flow
    hedges are released into the consolidated statement of income
    when the Company s earnings are affected by the variability
    in cash flows of the hedged item.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer
    probable that the forecasted transactions will occur by the end
    of the specified time period or the hedged item no longer meets
    the definition of a firm commitment, the derivative continues to
    be carried on the consolidated balance sheet at its fair value,
    with changes in fair value recognized currently in net
    investment gains (losses). Any asset or liability associated
    with a recognized firm commitment is derecognized from the
    consolidated balance sheet, and recorded currently in net
    investment gains (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a
    derivative recorded in other comprehensive income (loss)
    pursuant to the cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction are
    recognized immediately in net investment gains (losses).

In all other situations in which hedge accounting is
    discontinued, the derivative is carried at its fair value on the
    consolidated balance sheet, with changes in its fair value
    recognized in the current period as net investment gains
    (losses).

The Company is also a party to financial instruments that
    contain terms which are deemed to be embedded derivatives. The
    Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to
    determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. If the
    instrument would not be accounted for in its entirety at fair
    value and it is determined that the terms of the embedded
    derivative are not clearly and closely related to the economic
    characteristics of the host contract, and that a separate
    instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative
    instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host
    contract and accounted for as a freestanding derivative. Such
    embedded derivatives are carried on the consolidated balance
    sheet at fair value with the host contract and changes in their
    fair value are reported currently in net investment gains
    (losses). If the Company is unable to properly identify and
    measure an embedded derivative for separation from its host
    contract, the entire contract is carried on the balance sheet at
    fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in the current
    period in net investment gains (losses). Additionally, the
    Company may elect to carry an entire contract on the balance
    sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in
    the current period in net investment gains (losses) if that
    contract contains an embedded derivative that requires
    bifurcation. There is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring
    bifurcation may not be identified and reported at fair value in
    the consolidated financial statements and that their related
    changes in fair value could materially affect reported net
    income.

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
    with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less
    at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Property,
    Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer
    Software  

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are
    included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using
    either the straight-line or
     sum-of-the-years-digits 
    method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as
    appropriate. The estimated life for company occupied real estate
    property is generally 40 years. Estimated lives generally
    range from five to ten years for leasehold improvements and
    three to seven years for all other property and equipment. The
    cost basis of the property, equipment and leasehold improvements
    was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Accumulated depreciation and
    amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements
    was $828 million and $721 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Related depreciation and
    amortization

F-14

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

expense was $136 million, $129 million and
    $117 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated
    at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software
    costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred
    to develop internal-use computer software during the application
    development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized
    generally over a four-year period using the straight-line
    method. The cost basis of computer software was
    $1.4 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Accumulated amortization of
    capitalized software was $876 million and $752 million
    at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Related
    amortization expense was $126 million, $112 million
    and $111 million for the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issue expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a
    life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of
    the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right
    to receive future cash flows from the business in-force at the
    acquisition date. VOBA is based on actuarially determined
    projections, by each block of business, of future policy and
    contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate
    account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment
    returns and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased
    business may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC
    and VOBA is dependent upon the future profitability of the
    related business. DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial
    statements for reporting purposes.

DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is
    primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting
    expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term or reinsurance treaty.

DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment-type contracts are
    amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or
    gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described
    below.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating
    and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance,
    non-participating whole life insurance, non-medical health
    insurance, and traditional group life insurance) over the entire
    premium paying period in proportion to the present value of
    actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present
    value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement
    of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity,
    persistency, and investment returns at policy issuance, or
    policy acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include
    provisions for adverse deviation and are consistent with the
    assumptions used to calculate future policyholder benefit
    liabilities. These assumptions are not revised after policy
    issuance or acquisition unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed
    to be unrecoverable from future expected profits. Absent a
    premium deficiency, variability in amortization after policy
    issuance or acquisition is caused only by variability in premium
    volumes.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating,
    dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives
    of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future
    gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates
    in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The
    future gross margins are dependent principally on investment
    returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties, and certain economic variables, such
    as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying
    traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross
    margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates
    that investment returns, expenses, persistency, and other factor
    changes and policyholder dividend scales are reasonably likely
    to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA amortization.
    Each reporting period, the Company updates the estimated gross
    margins with the actual gross margins for that period. When the
    actual gross margins change from previously estimated gross
    margins, the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re-

F-15

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to
    current operations. When actual gross margins exceed those
    previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will
    increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The
    opposite result occurs when the actual gross margins are below
    the previously estimated gross margins. Each reporting period,
    the Company also updates the actual amount of business in-force,
    which impacts expected future gross margins.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable
    universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity
    contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in
    proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The
    amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at
    inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future
    gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of
    the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency,
    interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of
    any hedges used, and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that
    investment returns, expenses, and persistency are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that
    period. When the actual gross profits change from previously
    estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA
    amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
    or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits
    exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization
    will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are
    below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting
    period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business
    remaining in-force, which impacts expected future gross profits.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period. Returns that are higher than the Company s
    long-term expectation produce higher account balances, which
    increases the Company s future fee expectations and
    decreases future benefit payment expectations on minimum death
    benefit guarantees, resulting in higher expected future gross
    profits. The opposite result occurs when returns are lower than
    the Company s long-term expectation. The Company s
    practice to determine the impact of gross profits resulting from
    returns on separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation
    in equity markets is not changed by short-term market
    fluctuations, but is only changed when sustained interim
    deviations are expected. The Company monitors these changes and
    only changes the assumption when its long-term expectation
    changes.

The Company also reviews periodically other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business.
    Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation
    of estimated gross margins and profits which may have
    significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and
    VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period
    increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    assumption update causes expected future gross margins and
    profits to decrease.

Prior to 2007, DAC related to any internally replaced contract
    was generally expensed at the date of replacement. As described
    more fully in  Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements , effective January 1, 2007, the
    Company adopted Statement of Position ( SOP )
     05-1, 
     Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition
    Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
    Contracts
      ( SOP 05-1 ). 
    Under
     SOP 05-1, 
    an internal replacement is defined as a modification in product
    benefits, features, rights or coverages that occur by the
    exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment,
    endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by election or coverage
    within a contract. If the modification substantially changes the
    contract, the DAC is written off immediately through income and
    any new deferrable costs associated with the replacement
    contract are deferred. If the modification does not
    substantially change the contract, the DAC amortization on the
    original contract will continue and any acquisition costs
    associated with the related modification are expensed.

F-16

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Sales
    Inducements  

The Company has two different types of sales inducements which
    are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives
    a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance
    is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the
    customer s deposit; and (ii) the policyholder receives
    a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than
    would have been received based on the normal general account
    interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and
    amortizes them over the life of the policy using the same
    methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC.

Goodwill  

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets
    acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment
    at least annually or more frequently if events or circumstances,
    such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that
    there may be justification for conducting an interim test.
    Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, goodwill within
    Corporate   Other is allocated to reporting units
    within the Company s business segments. If the carrying
    value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its fair
    value, the excess is recognized as an impairment and recorded as
    a charge against net income. The fair values of the reporting
    units are determined using a market multiple, a discounted cash
    flow model, or a cost approach. The critical estimates necessary
    in determining fair value are projected earnings, comparative
    market multiples and the discount rate.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits and Policyholder Account
    Balances  

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance.
    Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time
    and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of
    future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value
    of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established
    based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
    GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
    used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy
    benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations,
    investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent
    events as appropriate to the respective product type. Utilizing
    these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of
    business basis.

Future policy benefit liabilities for participating traditional
    life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of
    (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment
    policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture
    interest rate, ranging from 3% to 10% for domestic business and
    3% to 10% for international business, and mortality rates
    guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in
    such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal
    dividends.

Future policy benefits for non-participating traditional life
    insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of the present
    value of expected future benefit payments and related expenses
    less the present value of expected future net premiums.
    Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the
    Company s experience when the basis of the liability is
    established. Interest rates for the aggregate future policy
    benefit liabilities range from 3% to 10% for domestic business
    and 3% to 12% for international business.

Participating business represented approximately 9% and 10% of
    the Company s life insurance in-force, and 33% and 38% of
    the number of life insurance policies in-force, at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Participating
    policies represented approximately 31% and 30%, 30% and 29%, and
    31% and 30% of gross and net life insurance premiums for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
    The percentages indicated are calculated excluding the business
    of the reinsurance segment.

F-17

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group
    traditional fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to the
    present value of expected future payments. Interest rates used
    in establishing such liabilities range from 3% to 11% for
    domestic business and 4% to 10% for international business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for non-medical health
    insurance are calculated using the net level premium method and
    assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest,
    which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rates
    used in establishing such liabilities range from 3% to 7% for
    domestic business and 3% to 10% for international business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest. Interest rates used in establishing such liabilities
    range from 3% to 8% for domestic business and 2% to 10% for
    international business.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon
    the Company s historical experience and other actuarial
    assumptions that consider the effects of current developments,
    anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for
    anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in
    such estimated liabilities are included in the results of
    operations in the period in which the changes occur.

The Company establishes future policy benefit liabilities for
    minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain
    annuity contracts and secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantees relating to certain life policies as follows:

Annuity guaranteed minimum death benefit ( GMDB )
    liabilities are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly
    evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability
    balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if
    actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier
    assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used in
    estimating the GMDB liabilities are consistent with those used
    for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability
    and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and
    volatility are consistent with the historical experience of the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Index
    ( S P ). The benefits used in calculating the
    liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a
    range of scenarios.

Guaranteed minimum income benefit ( GMIB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of the income
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any
    future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably
    over the accumulation period based on total expected
    assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates used and
    adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge
    or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other
    evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
    The assumptions used for estimating the GMIB liabilities are
    consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities.
    In addition, the calculation of guaranteed annuitization benefit
    liabilities incorporates an assumption for the percentage of the
    potential annuitizations that may be elected by the
    contractholder.

Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees
    and  paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the
    additional liability balances, with a related charge or credit
    to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence
    suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The
    assumptions used in estimating the secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for
    amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and
    risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility
    for variable products are consistent with historical S P
    experience. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are
    based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.

F-18

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company establishes policyholder account balances for
    guaranteed minimum benefit riders relating to certain variable
    annuity products as follows:

Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit riders ( GMWB )
    guarantee the contractholder a return of their purchase payment
    via partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to
    zero, provided that the contractholder s cumulative
    withdrawals in a contract year do not exceed a certain limit.
    The initial guaranteed withdrawal amount is equal to the initial
    benefit base as defined in the contract (typically, the initial
    purchase payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The GMWB is an
    embedded derivative, which is measured at fair value separately
    from the host variable annuity product.

Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefit riders
    ( GMAB ) provide the contractholder, after a specified
    period of time determined at the time of issuance of the
    variable annuity contract, with a minimum accumulation of their
    purchase payments even if the account value is reduced to zero.
    The initial guaranteed accumulation amount is equal to the
    initial benefit base as defined in the contract (typically, the
    initial purchase payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The
    GMAB is also an embedded derivative, which is measured at fair
    value separately from the host variable annuity product.

For both GMWB and GMAB, the initial benefit base is increased by
    additional purchase payments made within a certain time period
    and decreases by benefits paid
     and/or 
    withdrawal amounts. After a specified period of time, the
    benefit base may also increase as a result of an optional reset
    as defined in the contract.

The fair values of the GMWB and GMAB riders are calculated based
    on actuarial and capital market assumptions related to the
    projected cash flows, including benefits and related contract
    charges, over the lives of the contracts, incorporating
    expectations concerning policyholder behavior. In measuring the
    fair value of GMWBs and GMABs, the Company attributes a portion
    of the fees collected from the policyholder equal to the present
    value of expected future guaranteed minimum withdrawal and
    accumulation benefits (at inception). The changes in fair value
    are reported in net investment gains (losses). Any additional
    fees represent  excess  fees and are reported in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees. These
    riders may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining
    markets, causing an increase in liabilities for future policy
    benefits, negatively affecting net income.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing these policies, guarantees and
    riders and in the establishment of the related liabilities
    result in variances in profit and could result in losses. The
    effects of changes in such estimated liabilities are included in
    the results of operations in the period in which the changes
    occur.

Policyholder account balances relate to investment-type
    contracts and universal life-type policies. Investment-type
    contracts principally include traditional individual fixed
    annuities in the accumulation phase and non-variable group
    annuity contracts. Policyholder account balances are equal to
    (i) policy account values, which consist of an accumulation
    of gross premium payments; (ii) credited interest, ranging
    from 1% to 17% for domestic business and 1% to 15% for
    international business, less expenses, mortality charges, and
    withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating to
    business combinations. Bank deposits are also included in
    policyholder account balances.

Other
    Policyholder Funds  

Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims,
    unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance,
    policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder
    dividends left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care
    and dental claims as well as claims which have been reported but
    not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the
    Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims.
    The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred
    but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of
    historical patterns of claims and claims development for each
    line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates
    are

F-19

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this continuous
    review process and differences between estimates and payments
    for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and claims
    expense in the period in which the estimates are changed or
    payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    DAC. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its
    individual life, group life and health contracts as premium
    received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums
    when due.

Also included in other policyholder funds are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Recognition
    of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits  

Premiums related to traditional life and annuity policies with
    life contingencies are recognized as revenues when due from
    policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided
    against such revenues to recognize profits over the estimated
    lives of the policies. When premiums are due over a
    significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits
    are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into
    operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or,
    for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit
    payments.

Premiums related to non-medical health and disability contracts
    are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract
    term.

Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type
    products are credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues
    from such contracts consist of amounts assessed against
    policyholder account balances for mortality, policy
    administration and surrender charges and are recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the
    period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged
    to operations include interest credited and benefit claims
    incurred in excess of related policyholder account balances.

Premiums related to property and casualty contracts are
    recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of
    premium written relating to the unexpired coverage, are included
    in future policy benefits.

Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are
    presented net of reinsurance.

Other
    Revenues  

Other revenues include advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions
    and fees, and administrative service fees. Such fees and
    commissions are recognized in the period in which services are
    performed. Other revenues also include changes in account value
    relating to corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI ).
    Under certain COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain
    unlikely adverse results in its consolidated financial
    statements, withdrawals would not be immediately available and
    would be subject to market value adjustment, which could result
    in a reduction of the account value.

Policyholder
    Dividends  

Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance
    subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount of
    policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality,
    morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as
    management s judgment as to the appropriate level of
    statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.

F-20

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Income
    Taxes  

The Holding Company and its includable life insurance and
    non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated
    U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
     Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either
    separate individual corporate tax returns or separate
    consolidated tax returns.

The Company s accounting for income taxes represents
    management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the
    existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or
    carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax
    jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when
    management determines, based on available information, that it
    is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not
    be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining
    whether valuation allowances should be established as well as
    the amount of such allowances. When making such determination,
    consideration is given to, among other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company may be required to change its provision for income
    taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances
    include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is
    challenged by taxing authorities (See also Note 15) or
    when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on
    deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new
    information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation
    allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax
    laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or
    regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income
    tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could
    significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
    financial statements in the year these changes occur.

As described more fully in  Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements , the Company adopted FIN No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   An
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
     ( FIN 48 ) effective January 1, 2007.
    Under FIN 48, the Company determines whether it is
    more-likely-than-not that a tax position will be sustained upon
    examination by the appropriate taxing authorities before any
    part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial statements.
    A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that
    is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon
    settlement. Unrecognized tax benefits due to tax uncertainties
    that do not meet the threshold are included within other
    liabilities and are charged to earnings in the period that such
    determination is made.

The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense
    and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.

Reinsurance  

The Company enters into reinsurance transactions as both a
    provider and a purchaser of reinsurance for its life and
    property and casualty insurance products.

For each of its reinsurance contracts, the Company determines if
    the contract provides indemnification against loss or liability
    relating to insurance risk in accordance with applicable
    accounting standards. The Company reviews

F-21

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

all contractual features, particularly those that may limit the
    amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or
    features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.

For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration
    contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the
    difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the
    liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts
    is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of
    the contract. The net cost of reinsurance is recorded as an
    adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component of other
    expenses on a basis consistent with the way the acquisition
    costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be recognized.
    Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the reinsurance of
    in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid (received) related to
    new business, are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded
    (assumed) future policy benefit liabilities are established.

For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that
    meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid
    (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded
    (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of
    premiums and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such
    amounts are amortized through earned premiums over the remaining
    contract period in proportion to the amount of protection
    provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration
    contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting,
    amounts paid (received) in excess of (which do not exceed) the
    related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized
    immediately as a loss. Any gains on such retroactive contracts
    are deferred and recorded in other liabilities. The gains are
    amortized primarily using the recovery method.

The assumptions used to account for both long and short-duration
    reinsurance contracts are consistent with those used for the
    underlying contracts. Ceded policyholder and contract related
    liabilities, other than those currently due, are reported gross
    on the balance sheet.

Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance contracts are
    included in premiums and other receivables and amounts currently
    payable are included in other liabilities. Such assets and
    liabilities relating to reinsurance contracts with the same
    reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance sheet, if a right
    of offset exists within the reinsurance contract.

Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include
    amounts assumed under reinsurance contracts and are net of
    reinsurance ceded.

If the Company determines that a reinsurance contract does not
    expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
    significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the
    contract using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits
    received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are
    included within other assets. As amounts are paid or received,
    consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or
    liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded
    as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.
    Periodically, the Company evaluates the adequacy of the expected
    payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or
    liability through other revenues or other expenses, as
    appropriate.

Amounts received from reinsurers for policy administration are
    reported in other revenues.

Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
    and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of
    the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty
    credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and
    anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned
    assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
    ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial
    strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using
    criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment
    process discussed previously.

Separate
    Accounts  

Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance
    laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that
    arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account
    assets are subject to general account

F-22

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

claims only to the extent the value of such assets exceeds the
    separate account liabilities. The Company reports separately, as
    assets and liabilities, investments held in separate accounts
    and liabilities of the separate accounts if (i) such
    separate accounts are legally recognized; (ii) assets
    supporting the contract liabilities are legally insulated from
    the Company s general account liabilities;
    (iii) investments are directed by the contractholder; and
    (iv) all investment performance, net of contract fees and
    assessments, is passed through to the contractholder. The
    Company reports separate account assets meeting such criteria at
    their fair value. Investment performance (including investment
    income, net investment gains (losses) and changes in unrealized
    gains (losses)) and the corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders of such separate accounts are offset within the
    same line in the consolidated statements of income.

The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate
    accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy
    administration fees, investment management fees and surrender
    charges. Separate accounts not meeting the above criteria are
    combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the Company s general account assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses.

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees
    and sales representatives. A December 31 measurement date is
    used for all of the Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefit plans.

Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional
    formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula
    provides benefits based upon years of credited service and
    either final average or career average earnings. The cash
    balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which
    credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of
    eligible pay as well as earnings credits, determined annually
    based upon the average annual rate of interest on
     30-year 
    Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of
    December 31, 2007, virtually all the obligations are
    calculated using the traditional formula.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

SFAS No. 87,  Employers  Accounting for
    Pensions  ( SFAS 87 ), as amended, established
    the accounting for pension plan obligations. Under SFAS 87,
    the projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is
    defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested
    and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary
    levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation
    ( ABO ) is the actuarial present value of vested and
    non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary
    levels. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit
    pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial
    assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described
    below.

SFAS No. 106,  Employers  Accounting for
    Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
     ( SFAS 106 ), as amended, established the
    accounting for expected postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( EPBO ) which represents the actuarial present value
    of all other postretirement benefits expected to be paid after
    retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike for
    pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements
    but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated
    postretirement plan benefit obligations ( APBO )
    represents the actuarial present value of future other
    postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered
    through a particular date and is the valuation basis upon which
    liabilities are established. The APBO is determined using a
    variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may
    vary, as described below.

F-23

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Prior to December 31, 2006, the funded status of the
    pension and other postretirement plans, which is the difference
    between the fair value of plan assets and the PBO for pension
    plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans (collectively,
    the  Benefit Obligations ), were offset by the
    unrecognized actuarial gains or losses, prior service cost and
    transition obligations to determine prepaid or accrued benefit
    cost, as applicable. The net amount was recorded as a prepaid or
    accrued benefit cost, as applicable. Further, for pension plans,
    if the ABO exceeded the fair value of the plan assets, that
    excess was recorded as an additional minimum pension liability
    with a corresponding intangible asset. Recognition of the
    intangible asset was limited to the amount of any unrecognized
    prior service cost. Any additional minimum pension liability in
    excess of the allowable intangible asset was charged, net of
    income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income.

As described more fully in  Adoption of New Accounting
    Pronouncements , effective December 31, 2006, the
    Company adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employers 
    Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
    Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
    88, 106, and SFAS No. 132(r)
     ( SFAS 158 ). Effective with the adoption of
    SFAS 158 on December 31, 2006, the Company recognizes
    the funded status of the Benefit Obligations for each of its
    plans on the consolidated balance sheet. The actuarial gains or
    losses, prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net
    transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit costs as of December 31, 2006 are now
    charged, net of income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive
    income. Additionally, these changes eliminated the additional
    minimum pension liability provisions of SFAS 87.

Net periodic benefit cost is determined using management
    estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost,
    interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a
    particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the
    applicable amortization of any prior service cost (credit)
    arising from the increase (decrease) in prior years 
    benefit costs due to plan amendments or initiation of new plans.
    These costs are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over
    the expected service years of employees whose benefits are
    affected by such plan amendments. Actual experience related to
    plan assets
     and/or  the
    benefit obligations may differ from that originally assumed when
    determining net periodic benefit cost for a particular period,
    resulting in gains or losses. To the extent such aggregate gains
    or losses exceed 10 percent of the greater of the benefit
    obligations or the market-related asset value of the plans, they
    are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected
    service years of employees expected to receive benefits under
    the plans.

The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management,
    in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm,
    determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors
    such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
    currently available market and industry data, and expected
    benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ
    materially from actual results due to, among other factors,
    changing market and economic conditions and changes in
    participant demographics. These differences may have a
    significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements and liquidity.

The Subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution savings and
    investment plans ( SIP ) for substantially all
    employees under which a portion of employee contributions are
    matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll
    period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost
    for current matching contributions. As all contributions are
    transferred currently as earned to the SIP trust, no liability
    for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

Stock-based compensation grants prior to January 1, 2003
    were accounted for using the intrinsic value method prescribed
    by Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion
    No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
     ( APB 25 ), and related interpretations.
    Compensation expense, if any, was recorded based upon the excess
    of the quoted market price at grant date over the amount the
    employee was required to pay to acquire the stock. Under the

F-24

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

provisions of APB 25, there was no compensation expense
    resulting from the issuance of stock options as the exercise
    price was equivalent to the fair market value at the date of
    grant. Compensation expense was recognized under the Long-Term
    Performance Compensation Plan ( LTPCP ), as described
    more fully in Note 18.

Stock-based awards granted after December 31, 2002 but
    prior to January 1, 2006 were accounted for on a
    prospective basis using the fair value accounting method
    prescribed by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS 123 ), as
    amended by SFAS No. 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation   Transition and Disclosure
     ( SFAS 148 ). The fair value method of
    SFAS 123 required compensation expense to be measured based
    on the fair value of the equity instrument at the grant or award
    date. Stock-based compensation was accrued over the vesting
    period of the grant or award, including grants or awards to
    retirement-eligible employees. As required by SFAS 148, the
    Company discloses the pro forma impact as if the stock options
    granted prior to January 1, 2003 had been accounted for
    using the fair value provisions of SFAS 123 rather than the
    intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25. See Note 18.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted, using the
    modified prospective transition method, SFAS No. 123
    (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment
     ( SFAS 123(r) ), which replaces SFAS 123
    and supersedes APB 25. The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not
    have a significant impact on the Company s financial
    position or results of operations. SFAS 123(r) requires
    that the cost of all stock-based transactions be measured at
    fair value and recognized over the period during which a grantee
    is required to provide goods or services in exchange for the
    award. Although the terms of the Company s stock-based
    plans do not accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the
    attainment of retirement eligibility, the requisite service
    period subsequent to attaining such eligibility is considered
    nonsubstantive. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation
    expense related to stock-based awards over the shorter of the
    requisite service period or the period to attainment of
    retirement eligibility. SFAS 123(r) also requires an
    estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards to be
    incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when
    recognizing expense over the requisite service period.

Foreign
    Currency  

Balance sheet accounts of foreign operations are translated at
    the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and income and
    expense accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange
    prevailing during the year. The local currencies of foreign
    operations generally are the functional currencies unless the
    local economy is highly inflationary. Translation adjustments
    are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income
    or loss. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are
    reported as net investment gains (losses) in the period in which
    they occur.

Discontinued
    Operations  

The results of operations of a component of the Company that
    either has been disposed of or is classified as
     held-for-sale 
    are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and
    cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from
    the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the
    disposal transaction and the Company will not have any
    significant continuing involvement in the operations of the
    component after the disposal transaction.

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the
    weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
    period. The difference between the number of shares assumed
    issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the
    dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include the
    dilutive effect of the assumed: (i) exercise or issuance of
    stock-based awards using the treasury stock method;
    (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying
    common equity units using the treasury stock method; and
    (iii) settlement of accelerated common stock repurchase
    contract. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance
    of stock-

F-25

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

based awards and settlement of the stock purchase contracts
    underlying common equity units is assumed to occur with the
    proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average market
    price for the period. See Notes 13, 18 and 20.

Litigation
    Contingencies  

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews
    relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation,
    regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies
    to be reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of
    the Company s litigation and regulatory investigations, or
    the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts
    recorded could have a material effect upon the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements   

Income
    Taxes  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48.
    FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
    tax recognized in a company s financial statements.
    FIN 48 requires companies to determine whether it is
     more likely than not  that a tax position will be
    sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authorities
    before any part of the benefit can be recorded in the financial
    statements. It also provides guidance on the recognition,
    measurement, and classification of income tax uncertainties,
    along with any related interest and penalties. Previously
    recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this standard
    are required to be charged to earnings in the period that such
    determination is made.

As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company
    recognized a $52 million increase in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, a $4 million decrease in the
    interest liability for unrecognized tax benefits, and a
    corresponding reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of
    retained earnings of $37 million, net of $11 million
    of minority interest. See also Note 15.

Insurance
    Contracts  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
     SOP 05-1 
    which provides guidance on accounting by insurance enterprises
    for DAC on internal replacements of insurance and investment
    contracts other than those specifically described in
    SFAS 97,  Accounting and Reporting by Insurance
    Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized
    Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments.
      SOP 05-1 
    defines an internal replacement and is effective for internal
    replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after
    December 15, 2006. In addition, in February 2007, the
    American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
    ( AICPA ) issued related Technical Practice Aids
    ( TPAs ) to provide further clarification of
     SOP 05-1. 
    The TPAs became effective concurrently with the adoption of
     SOP 05-1. 

As a result of the adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs, if an internal replacement modification
    substantially changes a contract, then the DAC is written off
    immediately through income and any new deferrable costs
    associated with the new replacement are deferred. If a contract
    modification does not substantially change the contract, the DAC
    amortization on the original contract will continue and any
    acquisition costs associated with the related modification are
    immediately expensed.

The adoption of
     SOP 05-1 
    and the related TPAs resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on
    January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization
    period relating primarily to the Company s group life and
    health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset
    provisions. Prior to the adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts was amortized over the expected renewable
    life of the contract. Upon adoption of
     SOP 05-1, 
    DAC on such contracts is to

F-26

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

be amortized over the rate reset period. The impact as of
    January 1, 2007 was a cumulative effect adjustment of
    $292 million, net of income tax of $161 million, which
    was recorded as a reduction to retained earnings.

Defined
    Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans  

Effective December 31, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 158. The pronouncement revises financial reporting
    standards for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
    plans by requiring the:

(i) 

recognition in the statement of financial position of the funded
    status of defined benefit plans measured as the difference
    between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit
    obligation, which is the projected benefit obligation for
    pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit
    obligation for other postretirement plans;

(ii) 

recognition as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial
    gains and losses, prior service costs and credits, and net asset
    or obligation at transition that have not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit costs as of the end of the year of adoption;

(iii) 

recognition of subsequent changes in funded status as a
    component of other comprehensive income;

(iv) 

measurement of benefit plan assets and obligations as of the
    date of the statement of financial position; and

(v) 

disclosure of additional information about the effects on the
    employer s statement of financial position.

The adoption of SFAS 158 resulted in a reduction of
    $744 million, net of income tax, to accumulated other
    comprehensive income, which is included as a component of total
    consolidated stockholders  equity. As the Company s
    measurement date for its pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans is already December 31 there was no impact of
    adoption due to changes in measurement date. See also
     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical
    Accounting Estimates  and Note 17.

Stock
    Compensation Plans  

As described previously, effective January 1, 2006, the
    Company adopted SFAS 123(r) including supplemental
    application guidance issued by the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission ( SEC ) in Staff Accounting
    Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 107,  Share-Based Payment
     ( SAB 107 )   using the modified
    prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified
    prospective transition method, results for prior periods have
    not been restated. SFAS 123(r) requires that the cost of
    all stock-based transactions be measured at fair value and
    recognized over the period during which a grantee is required to
    provide goods or services in exchange for the award. The Company
    had previously adopted the fair value method of accounting for
    stock-based awards as prescribed by SFAS 123 on a
    prospective basis effective January 1, 2003, and prior to
    January 1, 2003, accounted for its stock-based awards to
    employees under the intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25.
    The Company did not modify the substantive terms of any existing
    awards prior to adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Under the modified prospective transition method, compensation
    expense recognized during the year ended December 31, 2006
    includes: (a) compensation expense for all stock-based
    awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of
    January 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
    estimated in accordance with the original provisions of
    SFAS 123, and (b) compensation expense for all
    stock-based awards granted beginning January 1, 2006, based
    on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the
    provisions of SFAS 123(r).

The adoption of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant
    impact on the Company s financial position or results of
    operations as all stock-based awards accounted for under the
    intrinsic value method prescribed by APB 25 had vested prior to
    the adoption date and the Company had adopted the fair value
    recognition provisions of SFAS 123 on

F-27

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

January 1, 2003. As required by SFAS 148, and carried
    forward in the provisions of SFAS 123(r), the Company
    discloses the pro forma impact as if stock-based awards
    accounted for under APB 25 had been accounted for under the fair
    value method in Note 18.

SFAS 123 allowed forfeitures of stock-based awards to be
    recognized as a reduction of compensation expense in the period
    in which the forfeiture occurred. Upon adoption of
    SFAS 123(r), the Company changed its policy and now
    incorporates an estimate of future forfeitures into the
    determination of compensation expense when recognizing expense
    over the requisite service period. The impact of this change in
    accounting policy was not significant to the Company s
    financial position or results of operations as of the date of
    adoption.

Additionally, for awards granted after adoption, the Company
    changed its policy from recognizing expense for stock-based
    awards over the requisite service period to recognizing such
    expense over the shorter of the requisite service period or the
    period to attainment of retirement-eligibility. The pro forma
    impact of this change in expense recognition policy for
    stock-based compensation is detailed in Note 18.

Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(r), the Company presented
    tax benefits of deductions resulting from the exercise of stock
    options within operating cash flows in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows. SFAS 123(r) requires tax benefits
    resulting from tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost
    recognized for those options be classified and reported as a
    financing cash inflow upon adoption of SFAS 123(r).

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

The Company has adopted guidance relating to derivative
    financial instruments as follows:

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain
    Hybrid Instruments  ( SFAS 155 ).
    SFAS 155 amends SFAS 133 and SFAS No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities
     ( SFAS 140 ). SFAS 155 allows financial
    instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for
    as a whole, eliminating the need to bifurcate the derivative
    from its host, if the holder elects to account for the whole
    instrument on a fair value basis. In addition, among other
    changes, SFAS 155:

(i)   

clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips
    are not subject to the requirements of SFAS 133;

(ii)  

establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized
    financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding
    derivatives or that are hybrid financial instruments that
    contain an embedded derivative requiring bifurcation;

(iii)  

clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of
    subordination are not embedded derivatives; and

(iv)  

amends SFAS 140 to eliminate the prohibition on a
    qualifying special-purpose entity ( QSPE ) from
    holding a derivative financial instrument that pertains to a
    beneficial interest other than another derivative financial
    interest.

The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact on
    the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective October 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B40,  Embedded
    Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to Securitized
    Interests in Prepayable Financial Assets  ( Issue
    B40 ). Issue B40 clarifies that a securitized interest in
    prepayable financial assets is not subject to the conditions in
    paragraph 13(b) of SFAS 133, if it meets both of the
    following criteria: (i) the right to accelerate the
    settlement if the securitized interest cannot be controlled by
    the investor; and (ii) the securitized interest itself does
    not contain an embedded derivative (including an interest
    rate-related derivative) for which bifurcation would be required
    other than an embedded derivative that results solely

F-28

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

from the embedded call options in the underlying financial
    assets. The adoption of Issue B40 did not have a material impact
    on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B38,
     Embedded Derivatives: Evaluation of Net Settlement with
    Respect to the Settlement of a Debt Instrument through Exercise
    of an Embedded Put Option or Call Option  ( Issue
    B38 ) and SFAS 133 Implementation Issue No. B39,
     Embedded Derivatives: Application of Paragraph 13(b) to
    Call Options That Are Exercisable Only by the Debtor
     ( Issue B39 ). Issue B38 clarifies that the
    potential settlement of a debtor s obligation to a creditor
    occurring upon exercise of a put or call option meets the net
    settlement criteria of SFAS 133. Issue B39 clarifies that
    an embedded call option, in which the underlying is an interest
    rate or interest rate index, that can accelerate the settlement
    of a debt host financial instrument should not be bifurcated and
    fair valued if the right to accelerate the settlement can be
    exercised only by the debtor (issuer/borrower) and the investor
    will recover substantially all of its initial net investment.
    The adoption of Issues B38 and B39 did not have a material
    impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.

Other  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Staff
    Position ( FSP ) Emerging Issues Task Force
    ( EITF )
     00-19-2, 
     Accounting for Registration Payment Arrangements
     ( FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 ). 
    FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    specifies that the contingent obligation to make future payments
    or otherwise transfer consideration under a registration payment
    arrangement should be separately recognized and measured in
    accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for
    Contingencies.  The adoption of FSP
     EITF 00-19-2 
    did not have an impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FSP
     No. FAS 13-2, 
     Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of
    Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged
    Lease Transaction
      ( FSP 13-2 ). 
     FSP 13-2 
    amends SFAS No. 13,  Accounting for Leases , to
    require that a lessor review the projected timing of income tax
    cash flows generated by a leveraged lease annually or more
    frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a change in
    timing has occurred or is projected to occur. In addition,
     FSP 13-2 
    requires that the change in the net investment balance resulting
    from the recalculation be recognized as a gain or loss from
    continuing operations in the same line item in which leveraged
    lease income is recognized in the year in which the assumption
    is changed. The adoption of
     FSP 13-2 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 156,  Accounting for Servicing of Financial
    Assets   an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140
     ( SFAS 156 ). Among other requirements,
    SFAS 156 requires an entity to recognize a servicing asset
    or servicing liability each time it undertakes an obligation to
    service a financial asset by entering into a servicing contract
    in certain situations. The adoption of SFAS 156 did not
    have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

Effective November 15, 2006, the Company adopted
    SAB No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
    Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year
    Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ).
    SAB 108 provides guidance on how prior year misstatements
    should be considered when quantifying misstatements in current
    year financial statements for purposes of assessing materiality.
    SAB 108 requires that registrants quantify errors using
    both a balance sheet and income statement approach and evaluate
    whether either approach results in quantifying a misstatement
    that, when relevant quantitative and qualitative factors are
    considered, is material. SAB 108 permits companies to
    initially apply its provisions by either restating prior
    financial statements or recording a cumulative effect adjustment
    to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of
    January 1, 2006 with an offsetting adjustment to retained
    earnings for errors that were previously deemed immaterial but
    are material under the guidance in SAB 108. The adoption of
    SAB 108 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

F-29

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    prospectively EITF Issue
     No. 05-7, 
     Accounting for Modifications to Conversion Options Embedded
    in Debt Instruments and Related Issues
      ( EITF 05-7 ). 
     EITF 05-7 
    provides guidance on whether a modification of conversion
    options embedded in debt results in an extinguishment of that
    debt. In certain situations, companies may change the terms of
    an embedded conversion option as part of a debt modification.
    The EITF concluded that the change in the fair value of an
    embedded conversion option upon modification should be included
    in the analysis of EITF Issue
     No. 96-19, 
     Debtor s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of
    Debt Instruments , to determine whether a modification or
    extinguishment has occurred and that a change in the fair value
    of a conversion option should be recognized upon the
    modification as a discount (or premium) associated with the
    debt, and an increase (or decrease) in additional paid-in
    capital. The adoption of
     EITF 05-7 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 05-8, 
     Income Tax Consequences of Issuing Convertible Debt with a
    Beneficial Conversion Feature
      ( EITF 05-8 ). 
     EITF 05-8 
    concludes that: (i) the issuance of convertible debt with a
    beneficial conversion feature results in a basis difference that
    should be accounted for as a temporary difference; and
    (ii) the establishment of the deferred tax liability for
    the basis difference should result in an adjustment to
    additional paid-in capital.
     EITF 05-8 
    was applied retrospectively for all instruments with a
    beneficial conversion feature accounted for in accordance with
    EITF Issue
     No. 98-5, 
     Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial
    Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion
    Ratios , and EITF Issue
     No. 00-27, 
     Application of Issue
     No. 98-5 
    to Certain Convertible Instruments.  The adoption of
     EITF 05-8 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
    Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB
    Statement No. 3  ( SFAS 154 ).
    SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior
    periods  financial statements for a voluntary change in
    accounting principle unless it is deemed impracticable. It also
    requires that a change in the method of depreciation,
    amortization, or depletion for long-lived, non-financial assets
    be accounted for as a change in accounting estimate rather than
    a change in accounting principle. The adoption of SFAS 154
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue
     No. 04-5, 
     Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General
    Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar
    Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights
      ( EITF 04-5 ). 
     EITF 04-5 
    provides a framework for determining whether a general partner
    controls and should consolidate a limited partnership or a
    similar entity in light of certain rights held by the limited
    partners. The consensus also provides additional guidance on
    substantive rights.
     EITF 04-5 
    was effective after June 29, 2005 for all newly formed
    partnerships and for any pre-existing limited partnerships that
    modified their partnership agreements after that date. For all
    other limited partnerships,
     EITF 04-5 
    required adoption by January 1, 2006 through a cumulative
    effect of a change in accounting principle recorded in opening
    equity or applied retrospectively by adjusting prior period
    financial statements. The adoption of the provisions of
     EITF 04-5 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective November 9, 2005, the Company prospectively
    adopted the guidance in FSP
     No. FAS 140-2, 
     Clarification of the Application of Paragraphs 40(b) and
    40(c) of FAS 140
      ( FSP 140-2 ). 
     FSP 140-2 
    clarified certain criteria relating to derivatives and
    beneficial interests when considering whether an entity
    qualifies as a QSPE. Under
     FSP 140-2, 
    the criteria must only be met at the date the QSPE issues
    beneficial interests or when a derivative financial instrument
    needs to be replaced upon the occurrence of a specified event
    outside the control of the transferor. The adoption of
     FSP 140-2 
    did not have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted
    SFAS No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an
    amendment of APB Opinion No. 29
     ( SFAS 153 ). SFAS 153 amended prior
    guidance to eliminate the exception for nonmonetary exchanges of
    similar productive assets and replaced it with a general
    exception for

F-30

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial
    substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if
    the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change
    significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of
    SFAS 153 were required to be applied prospectively for
    fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption
    of SFAS 153 did not have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

Effective July 1, 2005, the Company adopted EITF Issue
     No. 05-6, 
     Determining the Amortization Period for Leasehold
    Improvements
      ( EITF 05-6 ). 
     EITF 05-6 
    provides guidance on determining the amortization period for
    leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination or
    acquired subsequent to lease inception. As required by
     EITF 05-6, 
    the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis which
    had no material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

In June 2005, the FASB completed its review of EITF Issue
     No. 03-1, 
     The Meaning of
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments
      ( EITF 03-1 ). 
     EITF 03-1 
    provides accounting guidance regarding the determination of when
    an impairment of debt and marketable equity securities and
    investments accounted for under the cost method should be
    considered
     other-than-temporary 
    and recognized in income.
     EITF 03-1 
    also requires certain quantitative and qualitative disclosures
    for debt and marketable equity securities classified as
     available-for-sale 
    or
     held-to-maturity 
    under SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain
    Investments in Debt and Equity Securities , that are impaired
    at the balance sheet date but for which an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment has not been recognized. The FASB decided not to
    provide additional guidance on the meaning of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment but has issued FSP Nos.
     FAS 115-1 
    and
     FAS 124-1, 
     The Meaning of
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment and its Application to Certain Investments
      ( FSP 115-1 ), 
    which nullifies the accounting guidance on the determination of
    whether an investment is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired as set forth in
     EITF 03-1. 
    As required by
     FSP 115-1, 
    the Company adopted this guidance on a prospective basis, which
    had no material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements, and has provided the required disclosures.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FAS 109-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings
    Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of
    2004
      ( FSP 109-2 ). 
    The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ( AJCA )
    introduced a one-time dividend received deduction on the
    repatriation of certain earnings to a U.S. taxpayer.
     FSP 109-2 
    provides companies additional time beyond the financial
    reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effects of the
    AJCA on their plans to repatriate foreign earnings for purposes
    of applying SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes.  During 2005, the Company recorded a $27 million
    income tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign
    earnings pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for
    which a U.S. deferred income tax provision had previously
    been recorded. As of January 1, 2006, the repatriation
    provision of the AJCA no longer applies to the Company.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   

Fair
    Value  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
     Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ).
    SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
    measuring fair value and requires enhanced disclosures about
    fair value measurements. Effective January 1, 2008, the
    Company adopted SFAS 157 and applied the provisions of the
    statement prospectively to assets and liabilities measured and
    disclosed at fair value. In addition to new disclosure
    requirements, the adoption of SFAS 157 changes the
    valuation of certain freestanding derivatives by moving from a
    mid to bid pricing convention as well as changing the valuation
    of embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts. The
    change in valuation of embedded derivatives associated with
    annuity contracts results from the incorporation of risk margins
    and the Company s own credit standing in their valuation.
    While the Company does not expect such changes in valuation to
    have a material impact on the Company s financial
    statements at January 1, 2008, the addition of risk margins
    and the Company s own credit spread in the valuation of
    embedded derivatives associated with annuity contracts may
    result in significant volatility in the Company s
    consolidated net income.

F-31

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The
    Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
     ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 permits entities
    the option to measure most financial instruments and certain
    other items at fair value at specified election dates and to
    report related unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The fair
    value option is generally applied on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis and is generally an irrevocable election. Effective
    January 1, 2008, the Company has elected the fair value
    option on fixed maturity securities backing certain pension
    products sold in Brazil. Previously, these fixed maturity
    securities were accounted for as
     available-for-sale 
    securities in accordance with FAS 115. The Company s
    insurance joint venture in Japan also elected the fair value
    option for its single premium deferred annuities and supporting
    assets. These elections are not expected to have a material
    impact on the Company s retained earnings or equity as of
    January 1, 2008.

In June 2007, the AICPA issued
     SOP 07-1, 
     Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide
    Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and
    Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies
      ( SOP 07-1 ) 
    . Upon adoption of
     SOP 07-1, 
    the Company must also adopt the provisions of FASB Staff
    Position No. FSP
     FIN 46(r)-7, 
     Application of FASB Interpretation No. 46 to Investment
    Companies  ( FSP
     FIN 46(r)-7 ), 
    which permanently exempts investment companies from applying the
    provisions of FIN No. 46(r),  Consolidation of
    Variable Interest Entities   An Interpretation of
    Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 , and its
    December 2003 revision ( FIN 46(r) ) to
    investments carried at fair value.
     SOP 07-1 
    provides guidance for determining whether an entity falls within
    the scope of the AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide  Investment
    Companies  and whether investment company accounting should
    be retained by a parent company upon consolidation of an
    investment company subsidiary or by an equity method investor in
    an investment company. In certain circumstances,
     SOP 07-1 
    precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment
    companies (i.e., fair value accounting), when similar direct
    investments exist in the consolidated group and are measured on
    a basis inconsistent with that applied to investment companies.
    Additionally,
     SOP 07-1 
    precludes retention of specialized accounting for investment
    companies if the reporting entity does not distinguish through
    documented policies the nature and type of investments to be
    held in the investment companies from those made in the
    consolidated group where other accounting guidance is being
    applied. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No.
    SOP 7-1-1,  Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position
    07-1 , which delays indefinitely the effective date of SOP
    07-1. The Company is closely monitoring further FASB
    developments.

In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP
     No. FIN 39-1, 
     Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 
     ( FSP 39-1 ). 
     FSP 39-1 
    amends FIN No. 39,  Offsetting of Amounts Related to
    Certain Contracts  ( FIN 39 ), to permit a
    reporting entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the
    right to reclaim cash collateral (a receivable) or the
    obligation to return cash collateral (a payable) against fair
    value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed
    with the same counterparty under the same master netting
    arrangement that have been offset in accordance with
    FIN 39.
     FSP 39-1 
    also amends FIN 39 for certain terminology modifications.
     FSP 39-1 
    applies to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007.
     FSP 39-1 
    will be applied retrospectively, unless it is impracticable to
    do so. Upon adoption of
     FSP 39-1, 
    the Company is permitted to change its accounting policy to
    offset or not offset fair value amounts recognized for
    derivative instruments under master netting arrangements. The
    adoption of
     FSP 39-1 
    will not have an impact on the Company s financial
    statements.

Business
    Combinations  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations   A
    Replacement of FASB Statement No. 141
     ( SFAS 141(r) ) and SFAS No. 160,
     Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
    Statements   An Amendment of ARB No. 51
     ( SFAS 160 ) which are effective for fiscal
    years beginning after December 15, 2008. Under
    SFAS 141(r) and SFAS 160:

All business combinations (whether full, partial, or
     step  acquisitions) result in all assets and
    liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair
    value, with limited exceptions.

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred;
    restructuring costs associated with a business combination are
    generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition
    date.

F-32

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of
    equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Certain acquired contingent liabilities are recorded at fair
    value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at
    either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under
    existing guidance for non-acquired contingencies.

Changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income
    tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect
    income tax expense.

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority
    interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition
    date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities.

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests,
    the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair
    value and a gain or loss is recognized.

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a
    change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or
    losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining
    ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are
    recognized.

The pronouncements are effective for fiscal years beginning on
    or after December 15, 2008 and apply prospectively to
    business combinations. Presentation and disclosure requirements
    related to noncontrolling interests must be retrospectively
    applied. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
    SFAS 141(r) on its accounting for future acquisitions and
    the impact of SFAS 160 on its consolidated financial
    statements.

Other  

In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP No.
     FAS 140-3, 
     Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase
    Financing Transactions 
     ( FSP 140-3 ). 
     FSP 140-3 
    provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a
    transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a
    single transaction or as two separate transactions.
     FSP 140-3 
    is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for
    fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008. The Company
    is currently evaluating the impact of
     FSP FAS 140-3 
    on its consolidated financial statements.

In January 2008, the FASB cleared SFAS 133 Implementation
    Issue E23,  Clarification of the Application of the Shortcut
    Method  ( Issue E23 ). Issue E23 amends
    SFAS 133 by permitting interest rate swaps to have a
    non-zero fair value at inception, as long as the difference
    between the transaction price (zero) and the fair value (exit
    price), as defined by SFAS 157, is solely attributable to a
    bid-ask spread. In addition, entities would not be precluded
    from assuming no ineffectiveness in a hedging relationship of
    interest rate risk involving an interest bearing asset or
    liability in situations where the hedged item is not recognized
    for accounting purposes until settlement date as long as the
    period between trade date and settlement date of the hedged item
    is consistent with generally established conventions in the
    marketplace. Issue E23 is effective for hedging relationships
    designated on or after January 1, 2008. The Company does
    not expect the adoption of Issue E23 to have a material impact
    on its consolidated financial statements.

In December 2007, the FASB ratified as final the consensus on
    EITF Issue
     No. 07-6, 
     Accounting for the Sale of Real Estate When the Agreement
    Includes a Buy-Sell Clause
      ( EITF 07-6 ). 
     EITF 07-6 
    addresses whether the existence of a buy-sell arrangement would
    preclude partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a
    jointly owned entity. The consensus concludes that the existence
    of a buy-sell clause does not necessarily preclude partial sale
    treatment under current guidance.
     EITF 07-6 
    applies prospectively to new arrangements entered into and
    assessments on existing transactions performed in fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not
    expect the adoption of
     EITF 07-6 
    to have a material impact on its consolidated financial
    statements.

F-33

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In November 2007, the SEC issued SAB No. 109,
     Written Loan Commitments Recorded at Fair Value through
    Earnings  ( SAB 109 ), which amends
    SAB No. 105,  Application of Accounting Principles
    to Loan Commitments . SAB 109 provides guidance on
    (i) incorporating expected net future cash flows when
    related to the associated servicing of a loan when measuring
    fair value; and (ii) broadening the SEC staff s view
    that internally-developed intangible assets should not be
    recorded as part of the fair value of a derivative loan
    commitment or to written loan commitments that are accounted for
    at fair value through earnings. Internally-developed intangible
    assets are not considered a component of the related
    instruments. SAB 109 is effective for derivative loan
    commitments issued or modified in fiscal quarters beginning
    after December 15, 2007. The adoption of SAB 109 will
    not have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements.

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

Travelers   

On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of
    Travelers for $12.1 billion. The results of Travelers 
    operations were included in the Company s financial
    statements beginning July 1, 2005. As a result of the
    acquisition, management of the Company increased significantly
    the size and scale of the Company s core insurance and
    annuity products and expanded the Company s presence in
    both the retirement   savings  domestic and
    international markets. The distribution agreements executed with
    Citigroup as part of the acquisition provide the Company with
    one of the broadest distribution networks in the industry.

The initial consideration paid in 2005 by the Company for the
    acquisition consisted of $10.9 billion in cash and
    22,436,617 shares of the Company s common stock with a
    market value of $1.0 billion to Citigroup and
    $100 million in other transaction costs. The Company
    revised the purchase price as a result of the finalization by
    both parties of their review of the June 30, 2005 financial
    statements and final resolution as to the interpretation of the
    provisions of the acquisition agreement which resulted in a
    payment of additional consideration of $115 million by the
    Company to Citigroup in 2006. In addition to cash on-hand, the
    purchase price was financed through the issuance of common stock
    as described previously, debt securities as described in
    Note 10, common equity units as described in Note 13
    and preferred stock as described in Note 18.

The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of
    accounting, which requires that the assets and liabilities of
    Travelers be measured at their fair values. The net fair value
    of assets acquired and liabilities assumed totaled
    $7.8 billion, resulting in goodwill of $4.3 billion,
    of which $1.6 billion is deductible for income tax
    purposes. Further information on goodwill is described in
    Note 6. See Note 5 for the VOBA acquired as part of
    the acquisition and Note 7 for the value of distribution
    agreements ( VODA ) and the value of customer
    relationships acquired ( VOCRA ).

As part of the integration of Travelers  operations,
    management approved and initiated plans to reduce approximately
    1,000 domestic and international Travelers positions, which was
    completed in December 2006. MetLife initially recorded
    restructuring costs, including severance, relocation and
    outplacement services of Travelers  employees, as
    liabilities assumed in the purchase business combination of
    $49 million. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and
    2005, the liability for restructuring costs was reduced by
    $4 million and

F-34

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$1 million, respectively, due to a reduction in the
    estimate of severance benefits to be paid to Travelers
    employees. The restructuring costs associated with the Travelers
    acquisition were as follows:

Other
    Acquisitions and Dispositions   

On June 28, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50%
    interest in a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited
    ( MetLife Fubon ), for $56 million in cash,
    resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of
    the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition,
    and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of
    MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million,
    respectively, were included in the Company s consolidated
    balance sheet. The Company s investment for the initial 50%
    interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million. The Company used
    the equity method of accounting for such investment in MetLife
    Fubon. The Company s share of the joint venture s
    results for the six months ended June 30, 2007, was a loss
    of $3 million. The fair value of the assets acquired and
    the liabilities assumed in the step acquisition at June 30,
    2007, was $427 million and $371 million, respectively.
    No additional goodwill was recorded as a part of the step
    acquisition. As a result of this acquisition, additional VOBA
    and VODA of $45 million and $5 million, respectively,
    were recorded and both have a weighted average amortization
    period of 16 years. Further information on VOBA and VODA is
    described in Note 5 and Note 7, respectively.

On June 1, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its
    Bermuda insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance,
    Ltd. ( MLII ), to a third party for $33 million
    in cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of
    $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at
    disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million
    was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection
    with this disposition. Further information on guarantees is
    described in Note 16.

On September 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition
    of CitiStreet Associates, a division of CitiStreet LLC, which is
    primarily involved in the distribution of annuity products and
    retirement plans to the education, healthcare, and
     not-for-profit 
    markets, for $56 million, of which $2 million was
    allocated to goodwill and $54 million to other identifiable
    intangibles, specifically the value of customer relationships
    acquired, which have a weighted average amortization period of
    16 years. CitiStreet Associates was integrated with MetLife
    Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife, which is
    dedicated to provide retirement plans and financial services to
    the same markets. Further information on goodwill and VOCRA is
    described in Note 6 and Note 7, respectively.

See Note 23 for information on the disposition of the
    annuities and pension businesses of MetLife Insurance Limited
    ( MetLife Australia ), P.T. Sejahtera
    ( MetLife Indonesia ) and SSRM Holdings, Inc.
    ( SSRM ).

See Note 25 for information on the Company s
    acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2007.

F-35

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

3.    

Investments  

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gain and loss, and estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities, the
    percentage that each sector represents by the total fixed
    maturity securities holdings and by the total equity securities
    holdings at:

F-36

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company held foreign currency derivatives with notional
    amounts of $9.2 billion and $8.9 billion to hedge the
    exchange rate risk associated with foreign denominated fixed
    maturity securities at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

The Company is not exposed to any significant concentrations of
    credit risk in its equity securities portfolio. The Company is
    exposed to concentrations of credit risk related to
    U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of
    U.S. government corporations and agencies. Additionally, at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had exposure to
    fixed maturity securities backed by sub-prime mortgages with
    estimated fair values of $2.2 billion and
    $3.0 billion, respectively, and unrealized losses of
    $219 million and $5 million, respectively. These
    securities are classified within asset-backed securities in the
    immediately preceding table. At December 31, 2007, 32% have
    been guaranteed by financial guarantors, of which 55% was
    guaranteed by financial guarantors who remain Aaa rated in 2008.
    Overall, at December 31, 2007, $6.7 billion of the
    estimated fair value of the Company s fixed maturity
    securities were credit enhanced by financial guarantors of which
    $2.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.7 billion at
    December 31, 2007, are included within state and political
    subdivisions, corporate securities and asset-backed securities,
    respectively, and 80% were guaranteed by financial guarantors
    who remain Aaa rated in 2008.

The Company held fixed maturity securities at estimated fair
    values that were below investment grade or not rated by an
    independent rating agency that totaled $17.7 billion and
    $17.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. These securities had net unrealized gains (losses)
    of ($108) million and $627 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Non-income
    producing fixed maturity securities were $13 million and
    $16 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Net unrealized gains associated with non-income
    producing fixed maturity securities were $12 million and
    $4 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity
    securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled
    sinking funds), are as follows:

Fixed maturity securities not due at a single maturity date have
    been included in the above table in the year of final
    contractual maturity. Actual maturities may differ from
    contractual maturities due to the exercise of prepayment options.

F-37

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity securities
    classified as
     available-for-sale 
    are as follows:

Unrealized
    Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The following tables present the estimated fair value and gross
    unrealized loss of the Company s fixed maturity (aggregated
    by sector) and equity securities in an unrealized loss position,
    aggregated by length of time that the securities have been in a
    continuous unrealized loss position at:

F-38

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Aging
    of Gross Unrealized Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities Available-for-Sale   

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss and number of securities for fixed maturity and
    equity securities, where the estimated fair value had declined
    and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%, or
    20% or more at:

F-39

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, $4.3 billion and
    $2.3 billion, respectively, of unrealized losses related to
    securities with an unrealized loss position of less than 20% of
    cost or amortized cost, which represented 4% and 2%,
    respectively, of the cost or amortized cost of such securities.

At December 31, 2007, $577 million of unrealized
    losses related to securities with an unrealized loss position of
    20% or more of cost or amortized cost, which represented 29% of
    the cost or amortized cost of such securities. Of such
    unrealized losses of $577 million, $555 million
    related to securities that were in an unrealized loss position
    for a period of less than six months. At December 31, 2006,
    $24 million of unrealized losses related to securities with
    an unrealized loss position of 20% or more of cost or amortized
    cost, which represented 30% of the cost or amortized cost of
    such securities. Of such unrealized losses of $24 million,
    $12 million related to securities that were in an
    unrealized loss position for a period of less than six months.

The Company held 30 fixed maturity and equity securities, each
    with a gross unrealized loss at December 31, 2007 of
    greater than $10 million. These securities represented 9%,
    or $459 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized
    loss on fixed maturity and equity securities. The Company held
    eight fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss at December 31, 2006 of greater than
    $10 million. These securities represented 7%, or
    $169 million in the aggregate, of the gross unrealized loss
    on fixed maturity and equity securities.

F-40

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company had
    $4.9 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, of gross
    unrealized losses related to its fixed maturity and equity
    securities. These securities are concentrated, calculated as a
    percentage of gross unrealized loss, as follows:

As described more fully in Note 1, the Company performs a
    regular evaluation, on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, of its investment holdings in accordance with its
    impairment policy in order to evaluate whether such securities
    are other-than-temporarily impaired. One of the criteria which
    the Company considers in its other-than-temporary impairment
    analysis is its intent and ability to hold securities for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of their
    value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized
    cost. The Company s intent and ability to hold securities
    considers broad portfolio management objectives such as
    asset/liability duration management, issuer and industry segment
    exposures, interest rate views and the overall total return
    focus. In following these portfolio management objectives,
    changes in facts and circumstances that were present in past
    reporting periods may trigger a decision to sell securities that
    were held in prior reporting periods. Decisions to sell are
    based on current conditions or the Company s need to shift
    the portfolio to maintain its portfolio management objectives
    including liquidity needs or duration targets on asset/liability
    managed portfolios. The Company attempts to anticipate these
    types of changes and if a sale decision has been made on an
    impaired security and that security is not expected to recover
    prior to the expected time of sale, the security will be deemed
    other-than-temporarily impaired in the period that the sale
    decision was made and an other-than-temporary impairment loss
    will be recognized.

Based upon the Company s current evaluation of the
    securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the cause
    of the decline being principally attributable to the general
    rise in interest rates during the holding period, and the
    Company s current intent and ability to hold the fixed
    maturity and equity securities with unrealized losses for a
    period of time sufficient for them to recover, the Company has
    concluded that the aforementioned securities are not
    other-than-temporarily impaired.

F-41

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity and
    equity securities, are loaned to third parties, primarily major
    brokerage firms. The Company requires a minimum of 102% of the
    fair value of the loaned securities to be separately maintained
    as collateral for the loans. Securities with a cost or amortized
    cost of $41.1 billion and $43.3 billion and an
    estimated fair value of $42.1 billion and
    $44.1 billion were on loan under the program at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Securities loaned
    under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the
    transferee. The Company was liable for cash collateral under its
    control of $43.3 billion and $45.4 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Security
    collateral of $40 million and $100 million on deposit
    from customers in connection with the securities lending
    transactions at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
    may not be sold or repledged and is not reflected in the
    consolidated financial statements.

Assets
    on Deposit and Held in Trust and Assets Pledged as
    Collateral   

The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory
    agencies with a fair market value of $1.8 billion and
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity
    securities. Company securities held in trust to satisfy
    collateral requirements had a cost or amortized cost of
    $7.1 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, consisting primarily of fixed
    maturity and equity securities.

Certain of the Company s fixed maturity securities are
    pledged as collateral for various derivative transactions as
    described in Note 4. Additionally, the Company has pledged
    certain of its fixed maturity securities in support of its debt
    and funding agreements as described in Notes 10 and 7,
    respectively.

Mortgage
    and Consumer Loans   

Mortgage and consumer loans are categorized as follows:

Mortgage loans are collateralized by properties primarily
    located in the United States. At December 31, 2007, 21%, 7%
    and 7% of the value of the Company s mortgage and consumer
    loans were located in California, Florida and Texas,
    respectively. Generally, the Company, as the lender, only loans
    up to 75% of the purchase price of the underlying real estate.

Certain of the Company s real estate joint ventures have
    mortgage loans with the Company. The carrying values of such
    mortgages were $373 million and $372 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

F-42

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding loan valuation allowances for mortgage and
    consumer loans is as follows:

A portion of the Company s mortgage and consumer loans was
    impaired and consisted of the following:

The average investment on impaired loans was $453 million,
    $202 million and $187 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest
    income on impaired loans was $38 million, $2 million
    and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

The investment in restructured loans was $2 million and
    $9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Interest income of less than $1 million,
    $1 million and $2 million was recognized on
    restructured loans for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively. Gross interest income that would
    have been recorded in accordance with the original terms of such
    loans amounted to less than $1 million, $1 million and
    $3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively.

Mortgage and consumer loans with scheduled payments of
    90 days or more past due on which interest is still
    accruing, had an amortized cost of $4 million and
    $15 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Mortgage and consumer loans on which interest is
    no longer accrued had an amortized cost of $28 million and
    $36 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Mortgage and consumer loans in foreclosure had an
    amortized cost of $12 million and $35 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

F-43

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Real
    Estate Holdings   

Real estate holdings consisted of the following:

Related depreciation expense on real estate was
    $130 million, $131 million and $135 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. These amounts include $13 million,
    $37 million and $62 million of depreciation expense
    related to discontinued operations for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

There were no impairments recognized on real estate
    held-for-sale for the year ended December 31, 2007.
    Impairment losses recognized on real estate held-for-sale were
    $8 million and $5 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The carrying
    value of non-income producing real estate was $12 million
    and $8 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The Company owned real estate acquired in
    satisfaction of debt of $3 million at both
    December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Real estate holdings were categorized as follows:

The Company s real estate holdings are primarily located in
    the United States. At December 31, 2007, 22%, 11%, 10% and
    9% of the Company s real estate holdings were located in
    California, New York, Florida and Texas, respectively.

F-44

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Leveraged
    Leases   

Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested
    assets, consisted of the following:

The Company s deferred income tax liability related to
    leveraged leases was $1.0 billion and $670 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The rental
    receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic
    installments. The payment periods range from one to
    15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as
    30 years.

The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases
    are as follows:

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that make private equity investments in companies in the
    United States and overseas) was $6.2 billion and
    $4.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Included within other limited partnership
    interests at December 31, 2007 and 2006 are
    $1.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of hedge
    funds. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005, net investment income from other limited partnership
    interests included $89 million, $98 million and
    $24 million respectively, related to hedge funds.

Funds
    Withheld at Interest   

Funds withheld at interest, included in other invested assets,
    were $4.5 billion and $4.0 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

F-45

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Investment Income   

The components of net investment income are as follows:

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)   

The components of net investment gains (losses) are as follows:

The Company periodically disposes of fixed maturity and equity
    securities at a loss. Generally, such losses are insignificant
    in amount or in relation to the cost basis of the investment,
    are attributable to declines in fair value occurring in the
    period of the disposition or are as a result of
    management s decision to sell securities based on current
    conditions or the Company s need to shift the portfolio to
    maintain its portfolio management objectives.

Losses from fixed maturity and equity securities deemed
    other-than-temporarily impaired, included within net investment
    gains (losses), were $106 million, $82 million and
    $64 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

F-46

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)   

The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses),
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income, are as
    follows:

The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) are as
    follows:

Trading
    Securities   

The Company has a trading securities portfolio to support
    investment strategies that involve the active and frequent
    purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale
    agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for
    certain insurance products. Trading securities and short sale
    agreement liabilities are recorded at fair value with subsequent
    changes in fair value recognized in net investment income
    related to fixed maturity securities.

F-47

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, trading securities were
    $779 million and $759 million, respectively, and
    liabilities associated with the short sale agreements in the
    trading securities portfolio, which were included in other
    liabilities, were $107 million and $387 million,
    respectively. The Company had pledged $407 million and
    $614 million of its assets, primarily consisting of trading
    securities, as collateral to secure the liabilities associated
    with the short sale agreements in the trading securities
    portfolio at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    interest and dividends earned on trading securities in addition
    to the net realized and unrealized gains (losses) recognized on
    the trading securities and the related short sale agreement
    liabilities included within net investment income totaled
    $50 million, $71 million and $14 million,
    respectively. Included within unrealized gains (losses) on such
    trading securities and short sale agreement liabilities, are
    changes in fair value of ($4) million, $26 million and
    less than $1 million for the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

As part of the acquisition of Travelers on July 1, 2005,
    the Company acquired Travelers  investment in Tribeca
    Citigroup Investments Ltd. ( Tribeca ). Tribeca was a
    feeder fund investment structure whereby the feeder fund invests
    substantially all of its assets in the master fund, Tribeca
    Global Convertible Instruments Ltd. The primary investment
    objective of the master fund is to achieve enhanced
    risk-adjusted return by investing in domestic and foreign
    equities and equity-related securities utilizing such strategies
    as convertible securities arbitrage. At December 31, 2005,
    MetLife was the majority owner of the feeder fund and
    consolidated the fund within its consolidated financial
    statements. Net investment income related to the trading
    activities of Tribeca, which included interest and dividends
    earned on trading securities in addition to the net realized and
    unrealized gains (losses), was $12 million and
    $6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2006 and
    the year ended December 31, 2005, respectively.

During the second quarter of 2006, MetLife s ownership
    interests in Tribeca declined to a position whereby Tribeca is
    no longer consolidated and, as of June 30, 2006, was
    accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The equity
    method investment at December 31, 2006 of $82 million
    was included in other limited partnership interests. Net
    investment income related to the Company s equity method
    investment in Tribeca was $9 million for the six months
    ended December 31, 2006.

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The following table presents the total assets of and maximum
    exposure to loss relating to VIEs for which the Company has
    concluded that: (i) it is the primary beneficiary and which
    are consolidated in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements at December 31, 2007; and (ii) it holds
    significant variable interests but it is not the primary
    beneficiary and which have not been consolidated:

F-48

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

The assets of the asset-backed securitizations and
    collateralized debt obligations are reflected at fair value. The
    assets of the real estate joint ventures, other limited
    partnership interests, trust preferred securities and other
    investments are reflected at the carrying amounts at which such
    assets would have been reflected on the Company s
    consolidated balance sheet had the Company consolidated the VIE
    from the date of its initial investment in the entity. 

(2)  

The maximum exposure to loss relating to the asset-backed
    securitizations and collateralized debt obligations is equal to
    the carrying amounts of retained interests. In addition, the
    Company provides collateral management services for certain of
    these structures for which it collects a management fee. The
    maximum exposure to loss relating to real estate joint ventures,
    other limited partnership interests, trust preferred securities
    and other investments is equal to the carrying amounts plus any
    unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by other
    partners. Such a maximum loss would be expected to occur only
    upon bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. 

(3)  

Real estate joint ventures include partnerships and other
    ventures which engage in the acquisition, development,
    management and disposal of real estate investments. 

(4)  

Other limited partnership interests include partnerships
    established for the purpose of investing in public and private
    debt and equity securities. 

(5)  

Trust preferred securities are complex, uniquely structured
    investments which contain features of both equity and debt, may
    have an extended or no stated maturity, and may be callable at
    the issuer s option after a defined period of time. 

(6)  

Other investments include securities that are not trust
    preferred securities, asset-backed securitizations or
    collateralized debt obligations and the assets supporting the
    financing arrangement described in Note 11. 

F-49

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

4.    

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Types
    of Derivative Financial Instruments   

The following table presents the notional amount and current
    market or fair value of derivative financial instruments held at:

The above table does not include notional amounts for equity
    futures, equity variance swaps and equity options. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned 4,658 and
    2,749 equity futures, respectively. Fair values of equity
    futures are included in financial futures in the preceding
    table. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company owned
    695,485 and 225,000 equity variance swaps, respectively. Fair
    values of equity variance swaps are included in financial
    forwards in the preceding table. At December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Company owned 77,374,937 and 74,864,483 equity
    options, respectively. Fair values of equity options are
    included in options in the preceding table.

F-50

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the notional amount of derivative
    financial instruments by maturity at December 31, 2007:

Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce
    market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter
    interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets
    and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an interest rate swap,
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate
    interest amounts as calculated by reference to an agreed
    notional principal amount. These transactions are entered into
    pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by the counterparty at each due date.

The Company also enters into basis swaps to better match the
    cash flows from assets and related liabilities. In a basis swap,
    both legs of the swap are floating with each based on a
    different index. Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset
    of the contract and no principal payments are made by either
    party. A single net payment is usually made by one counterparty
    at each due date. Basis swaps are included in interest rate
    swaps in the preceding table.

Interest rate caps and floors are used by the Company primarily
    to protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in
    interest rates above a specified level, and against interest
    rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets and
    liabilities (duration mismatches), as well as to protect its
    minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines in interest
    rates below a specified level, respectively.

In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) and equity
    futures transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a
    specified number of contracts, the value of which is determined
    by the different classes of interest rate and equity securities,
    and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal
    to the difference in the daily market values of those contracts.
    The Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated
    futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange.

Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are
    used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of
    assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported
    by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities
    the Company owns or anticipates acquiring, and to hedge against
    changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by
    replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The value of
    interest rate futures is substantially impacted by changes in
    interest rates and they can be used to modify or hedge existing
    interest rate risk.

F-51

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily to hedge
    liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company.

Foreign currency derivatives, including foreign currency swaps,
    foreign currency forwards and currency option contracts, are
    used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and
    liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also
    uses foreign currency forwards and swaps to hedge the foreign
    currency risk associated with certain of its net investments in
    foreign operations.

In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the
    difference between one currency and another at a forward
    exchange rate calculated by reference to an agreed upon
    principal amount. The principal amount of each currency is
    exchanged at the inception and termination of the currency swap
    by each party.

In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees
    with another party to deliver a specified amount of an
    identified currency at a specified future date. The price is
    agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a
    contract is made in a different currency at the specified future
    date.

The Company enters into currency option contracts that give it
    the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency
    amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a
    limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be
    net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign
    exchange rate and the strike price. Currency option contracts
    are included in options in the preceding table.

Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk
    associated with the Company s long-term liabilities, as
    well as to sell, or monetize, embedded call options in its fixed
    rate liabilities. A swaption is an option to enter into a swap
    with an effective date equal to the exercise date of the
    embedded call and a maturity date equal to the maturity date of
    the underlying liability. The Company receives a premium for
    entering into the swaption. Swaptions are included in options in
    the preceding table.

Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in
    equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the
    equity index within a limited time at a contracted price. The
    contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in
    the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. Equity
    index options are included in options in the preceding table.

The Company enters into financial forwards to buy and sell
    securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract
    and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future
    date.

Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company
    agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future,
    based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period.
    Equity variance swaps are included in financial forwards in the
    preceding table.

Swap spread locks are used by the Company to hedge invested
    assets on an economic basis against the risk of changes in
    credit spreads. Swap spread locks are forward starting swaps
    where the Company agrees to pay a coupon based on a
    predetermined reference swap spread in exchange for receiving a
    coupon based on a floating rate. The Company has the option to
    cash settle with the counterparty in lieu of maintaining the
    swap after the effective date. Swap spread locks are included in
    financial forwards in the preceding table.

Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge
    against credit-related changes in the value of its investments
    and to diversify its credit risk exposure in certain portfolios.
    In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party, at specified intervals, to pay a premium to
    insure credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the
    contract, occurs, generally the contract will require the swap
    to be settled gross by the delivery of par

F-52

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

quantities of the referenced investment equal to the specified
    swap notional in exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the
    counterparty equal to the par value of the investment
    surrendered.

Credit default swaps are also used to synthetically create
    investments that are either more expensive to acquire or
    otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions
    are a combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as
    a U.S. Treasury or Agency security. The Company also enters
    into certain credit default swaps held in relation to trading
    portfolios.

A synthetic guaranteed interest contract ( GIC ) is a
    contract that simulates the performance of a traditional GIC
    through the use of financial instruments. Under a synthetic GIC,
    the policyholder owns the underlying assets. The Company
    guarantees a rate return on those assets for a premium.

Total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ) are swaps whereby
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward
    of an asset or a market index and LIBOR, calculated by reference
    to an agreed notional principal amount. No cash is exchanged at
    the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the
    life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. These
    transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that
    provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty
    at each due date. TRRs can be used as hedges or to synthetically
    create investments and are included in the other classification
    in the preceding table.

Hedging   

The following table presents the notional amount and fair value
    of derivatives by type of hedge designation at:

The following table presents the settlement payments recorded in
    income for the:

F-53

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Fair
    Value Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair
    value hedges when they have met the requirements of
    SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed
    rate investments to floating rate investments; and
    (ii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency
    fair value exposure of foreign currency denominated investments
    and liabilities.

The Company recognized net investment gains (losses)
    representing the ineffective portion of all fair value hedges as
    follows:

All components of each derivative s gain or loss were
    included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. There were no
    instances in which the Company discontinued fair value hedge
    accounting due to a hedged firm commitment no longer qualifying
    as a fair value hedge.

Cash
    Flow Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash
    flow hedges when they have met the requirements of
    SFAS 133: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating
    rate investments to fixed rate investments; (ii) interest
    rate swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate
    liabilities; (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
    foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency
    denominated investments and liabilities; and (iv) financial
    forwards to buy and sell securities.

For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company
    did not recognize any net investment gains (losses) which
    represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. For
    the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company recognized
    net investment gains (losses) of ($25) million which
    represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. All
    components of each derivative s gain or loss were included
    in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In certain instances,
    the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the
    forecasted transactions did not occur on the anticipated date or
    in the additional time period permitted by SFAS 133. The
    net amounts reclassified into net investment losses for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 related to
    such discontinued cash flow hedges were $3 million,
    $3 million and $42 million, respectively. There were
    no hedged forecasted transactions, other than the receipt or
    payment of variable interest payments for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.

F-54

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the components of other
    comprehensive income (loss), before income tax, related to cash
    flow hedges:

At December 31, 2007, $23 million of the deferred net
    loss on derivatives accumulated in other comprehensive income
    (loss) is expected to be reclassified to earnings during the
    year ending December 31, 2008.

Hedges
    of Net Investments in Foreign Operations   

The Company uses forward exchange contracts, foreign currency
    swaps, options and non-derivative financial instruments to hedge
    portions of its net investments in foreign operations against
    adverse movements in exchange rates. The Company measures
    ineffectiveness on the forward exchange contracts based upon the
    change in forward rates. There was no ineffectiveness recorded
    for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.

The Company s consolidated statements of stockholders 
    equity for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005
    include gains (losses) of ($180) million,
    ($17) million and ($115) million, respectively,
    related to foreign currency contracts and non-derivative
    financial instruments used to hedge its net investments in
    foreign operations. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
    cumulative foreign currency translation loss recorded in
    accumulated other comprehensive income related to these hedges
    was $369 million and $189 million, respectively. When
    net investments in foreign operations are sold or substantially
    liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other comprehensive
    income are reclassified to the consolidated statements of
    income, while a pro rata portion will be reclassified upon
    partial sale of the net investments in foreign operations.

Non-qualifying
    Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than
    Hedging   

The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not
    qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133 or for purposes
    other than hedging: (i) interest rate swaps, purchased caps
    and floors, and interest rate futures to economically hedge its
    exposure to interest rate volatility; (ii) foreign currency
    forwards, swaps and option contracts to economically hedge its
    exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates;
    (iii) swaptions to sell embedded call options in fixed rate
    liabilities; (iv) credit default swaps to economically
    hedge exposure to adverse movements in credit; (v) equity
    futures, equity index options, interest rate futures and equity
    variance swaps to economically hedge liabilities embedded in
    certain variable annuity products; (vi) swap spread locks
    to economically hedge invested assets against the risk of
    changes in credit spreads; (vii) financial forwards to buy and
    sell securities; (viii) synthetic guaranteed interest
    contracts; (ix) credit default swaps and TRRs to
    synthetically create investments; (x) basis swaps to better
    match the cash flows of assets and related liabilities;
    (xi) credit default swaps held in relation to trading
    portfolios; and (xii) swaptions to hedge interest rate risk.

F-55

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents changes in fair value related to
    derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting:

(1)  

Changes in fair value related to economic hedges of equity
    method investment in joint ventures that do not qualify for
    hedge accounting and changes in fair value related to
    derivatives held in relation to trading portfolios. 

Embedded
    Derivatives   

The Company has certain embedded derivatives that are required
    to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as
    derivatives. These host contracts include guaranteed minimum
    withdrawal contracts, guaranteed minimum accumulation contracts
    and modified coinsurance contracts.

The following table presents the fair value of the
    Company s embedded derivatives at:

The following table presents changes in fair value related to
    embedded derivatives:

Credit
    Risk   

The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event
    of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial
    instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the
    Company s derivative contracts is limited to the fair value
    at the reporting date. The credit exposure of the Company s
    derivative transactions is represented by the fair value of
    contracts with a net positive fair value at the reporting date.

The Company manages its credit risk related to over-the-counter
    derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
    counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through
    the use of master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due
    date and upon termination. Because exchange traded futures are
    effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked
    to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to such derivative instruments.

F-56

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which
    require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in
    connection with its derivative instruments. As of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company was obligated to
    return cash collateral under its control of $833 million
    and $428 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash
    collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents and the
    obligation to return it is included in payables for collateral
    under securities loaned and other transactions in the
    consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2007 and
    2006, the Company had also accepted collateral consisting of
    various securities with a fair market value of $678 million
    and $453 million, respectively, which are held in separate
    custodial accounts. The Company is permitted by contract to sell
    or repledge this collateral, but as of December 31, 2007
    and 2006, none of the collateral had been sold or repledged.

As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company provided
    collateral of $162 million and $80 million,
    respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities in
    the consolidated balance sheets. In addition, the Company has
    exchange traded futures, which require the pledging of
    collateral. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Company
    pledged collateral of $167 million and $105 million,
    respectively, which is included in fixed maturity securities.
    The counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge
    this collateral.

F-57

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

5.    

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

Information regarding DAC and VOBA is as follows:

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VOBA is $477 million
    in 2008, $423 million in 2009, $379 million in 2010,
    $342 million in 2011, and $294 million in 2012.

F-58

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Amortization of VOBA and DAC is related to (i) investment
    gains and losses and the impact of such gains and losses on the
    amount of the amortization; (ii) unrealized investment
    gains and losses to provide information regarding the amount
    that would have been amortized if such gains and losses had been
    recognized; and (iii) other expenses to provide amounts
    related to the gross margins or profits originating from
    transactions other than investment gains and losses.

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets
    acquired. Information regarding goodwill is as follows:

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and
    dispositions.

7.    

Insurance  

Insurance
    Liabilities   

Insurance liabilities are as follows:

F-59

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Value
    of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired   

Information regarding the VODA and VOCRA, which are reported in
    other assets, is as follows:

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VODA and VOCRA is
    $23 million in 2008, $28 million in 2009,
    $34 million in 2010, $37 million in 2011 and
    $42 million in 2012. See Note 2 for a description of
    acquisitions and dispositions.

Sales
    Inducements   

Information regarding deferred sales inducements, which are
    reported in other assets, is as follows:

Separate
    Accounts   

Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories
    of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling
    $141.8 billion and $127.9 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes
    all investment risk, and separate accounts with a minimum return
    or account value for which the Company contractually guarantees
    either a minimum return or account value to the policyholder
    which totaled $18.4 billion and $16.5 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The latter
    category consisted primarily of Met Managed GICs and
    participating close-out contracts. The average interest rate
    credited on these contracts was 4.73% and 4.63% at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company (including
    mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender
    charges) are reflected in the Company s revenues as
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
    totaled $2.8 billion, $2.4 billion and
    $1.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

F-60

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company s proportional interest in separate accounts is
    included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:

For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, there
    were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets from
    the general account to the separate accounts.

Obligations
    Under Guaranteed Interest Contract Program   

The Company issues fixed and floating rate obligations under its
    GIC program which are denominated in either U.S. dollars or
    foreign currencies. During the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company issued $5.2 billion,
    $5.2 billion and $4.0 billion, respectively, and
    repaid $4.3 billion, $2.6 billion and
    $1.1 billion, respectively, of GICs under this program. At
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, GICs outstanding, which are
    included in policyholder account balances, were
    $24.2 billion and $21.5 billion, respectively. During
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, interest
    credited on the contracts, which are included in interest
    credited to policyholder account balances, was
    $1.1 billion, $835 million and $464 million,
    respectively.

Obligations
    Under Funding Agreements   

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ) is a
    member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the  FHLB
    of Boston ) and holds $70 million of common stock of
    the FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    which is included in equity securities. MICC has also entered
    into funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has
    issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and for
    which the FHLB of Boston has been granted a blanket lien on
    certain MICC assets, including residential mortgage-backed
    securities, to collateralize MICC s obligations under the
    funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these pledged
    assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any
    portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of
    default by MICC, the FHLB of Boston s recovery on the
    collateral is limited to the amount of MICC s liability to
    the FHLB of Boston. The amount of the Company s liability
    for funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was
    $726 million and $926 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in policyholder
    account balances. The advances on these funding agreements are
    collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities with
    fair values of $901 million and $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

MLIC is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York
    ( FHLB of NY ) and holds $339 million and
    $136 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included
    in equity securities. MLIC has also entered into funding
    agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MLIC has issued such
    funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB
    of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC assets, including
    residential mortgage-backed securities to collateralize
    MLIC s obligations under the funding agreements. MLIC
    maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use,
    commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral
    as long as there is no event of default and the remaining
    qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral
    maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC, the FHLB
    of NY s recovery on the collateral is limited to the amount
    of MLIC s liability to the FHLB of NY. The amount of the
    Company s liability for funding agreements with the FHLB of
    NY was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007, which is
    included in policyholder account balances. The advances on these
    agreements are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed
    securities with fair values of $4.8 billion at
    December 31, 2007. MLIC did not have any funding agreements
    with the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2006.

F-61

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

MLIC has issued funding agreements to certain trusts that have
    issued securities guaranteed as to payment of interest and
    principal by the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, a
    federally chartered instrumentality of the United States. The
    obligations under these funding agreements are secured by a
    pledge of certain eligible agricultural real estate mortgage
    loans and may, under certain circumstances, be secured by other
    qualified collateral. The amount of the Company s liability
    for funding agreements issued to such trusts was
    $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in policyholder
    account balances. The obligations under these funding agreements
    are collateralized by designated agricultural real estate
    mortgage loans with fair values of $2.9 billion and
    $1.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Liabilities
    for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses   

Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and
    claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group accident
    and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are
    reported in future policy benefits and other policyholder funds,
    is as follows:

During 2007 and 2006, as a result of changes in estimates of
    insured events in the respective prior year, claims and claim
    adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by
    $325 million and $329 million, respectively, due to a
    reduction in prior year automobile bodily injury and
    homeowners  severity, reduced loss adjustment expenses,
    improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim liabilities and
    improved claim management.

In 2005, the claims and claim adjustment expenses decreased by
    $180 million due to a reduction in prior year automobile
    bodily injury and homeowners  severity as well as
    refinement in the estimation methodology for non-medical health
    long-term care claim liabilities.

Guarantees   

The Company issues annuity contracts which may include
    contractual guarantees to the contractholder for:
    (i) return of no less than total deposits made to the
    contract less any partial withdrawals ( return of net
    deposits  and (ii) the highest contract value on a
    specified anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the
    contract

F-62

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

anniversary, or total deposits made to the contract less any
    partial withdrawals plus a minimum return ( anniversary
    contract value  or  minimum return ). The Company
    also issues annuity contracts that apply a lower rate of funds
    deposited if the contractholder elects to surrender the contract
    for cash and a higher rate if the contractholder elects to
    annuitize ( two tier annuities ). These guarantees
    include benefits that are payable in the event of death or at
    annuitization.

The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts
    where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder
    a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed
     paid-up 
    benefit.

Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to
    annuity contracts and universal and variable life contracts is
    as follows:

(1)  

The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees
    may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract.
    Therefore, the amounts listed above may not be mutually
    exclusive. 

(2)  

The net amount at risk is based on the direct amount at risk
    (excluding reinsurance). 

(3)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of
    death is defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit
    in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet
    date. 

F-63

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(4)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts at
    annuitization is defined as the present value of the minimum
    guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder
    determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in
    excess of the current account balance. 

(5)  

The net amount at risk for two tier annuities is based on the
    excess of the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the
    lower tier. 

Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding
    base policy liabilities) relating to annuity and universal and
    variable life contracts is as follows:

Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees are
    invested in separate account asset classes as follows:

F-64

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

8.    

Reinsurance  

The Company s life insurance operations participate in
    reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize
    exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for
    future growth. The Company has historically reinsured the
    mortality risk on new individual life insurance policies
    primarily on an excess of retention basis or a quota share
    basis. Until 2005, the Company reinsured up to 90% of the
    mortality risk for all new individual life insurance policies
    that it wrote through its various franchises. This practice was
    initiated by the different franchises for different products
    starting at various points in time between 1992 and 2000. During
    2005, the Company changed its retention practices for certain
    individual life insurance. Amounts reinsured in prior years
    remain reinsured under the original reinsurance; however, under
    the new retention guidelines, the Company reinsures up to 90% of
    the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most new
    individual life insurance policies that it writes through its
    various franchises and for certain individual life policies the
    retention limits remained unchanged. On a case by case basis,
    the Company may retain up to $20 million per life and
    reinsure 100% of amounts in excess of the Company s
    retention limits. The Company evaluates its reinsurance programs
    routinely and may increase or decrease its retention at any
    time. In addition, the Company reinsures a significant portion
    of the mortality risk on its individual universal life policies
    issued since 1983. Placement of reinsurance is done primarily on
    an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis for risks
    with specific characteristics.

In addition to reinsuring mortality risk as described
    previously, the Company reinsures other risks, as well as
    specific coverages. The Company routinely reinsures certain
    classes of risks in order to limit its exposure to particular
    travel, avocation and lifestyle hazards. The Company has
    exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to significant
    fluctuations in the Company s results of operations. The
    Company uses excess of retention and quota share reinsurance
    arrangements to provide greater diversification of risk and
    minimize exposure to larger risks.

The Company had also protected itself through the purchase of
    combination risk coverage. This reinsurance coverage pooled
    risks from several lines of business and included individual and
    group life claims in excess of $2 million per policy, as
    well as excess property and casualty losses, among others. This
    combination risk coverage was commuted during 2005.

The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group
    of reinsurers. No single unaffiliated reinsurer has a material
    obligation to the Company nor is the Company s business
    substantially dependent upon any reinsurance contracts. The
    Company is contingently liable with respect to ceded reinsurance
    should any reinsurer be unable to meet its obligations under
    these agreements.

In the Reinsurance Segment, Reinsurance Group of America,
    Incorporated ( RGA ) retains a maximum of
    $6 million of coverage per individual life with respect to
    its assumed reinsurance business.

The amounts in the consolidated statements of income are
    presented net of reinsurance ceded. Information regarding the
    effect of reinsurance is as follows:

F-65

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Reinsurance recoverables, included in premiums and other
    receivables, were $10.4 billion and $10.2 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, including
    $1.2 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006
    relating to reinsurance of long-term GICs and structured
    settlement lump sum contracts accounted for as a financing
    transaction; $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to
    reinsurance on the run-off of long-term care business written by
    Travelers; $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to
    reinsurance on the run-off of workers compensation business
    written by Travelers; and $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relating to the
    reinsurance of investment-type contracts held by small market
    defined benefit contribution plans. Reinsurance and ceded
    commissions payables, included in other liabilities, were
    $571 million and $275 million at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

9.    

Closed
    Block  

On April 7, 2000, (the  Demutualization Date ),
    MLIC converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock
    life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New
    York Superintendent of Insurance (the
     Superintendent ) approving MLIC s plan of
    reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ). On the
    Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the
    benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies
    of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an
    amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which,
    together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in
    the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to
    support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies,
    including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of
    claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the
    continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999,
    if the experience underlying such dividend scales continues, and
    for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience
    changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and
    projected experience against the experience assumed in the
    then-current dividend scales. Dividend scales are adjusted
    periodically to give effect to changes in experience.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies
    in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows
    from the assets allocated to the closed block and claims and
    other experience related to the closed block are, in the
    aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the
    closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed
    block policyholders in the future may be greater than or less
    than the total dividends that would have been paid to these
    policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for
    1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts
    assumed will be available for distribution over time to closed
    block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders.
    If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed
    policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets
    outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in
    effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains
    in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over
    100 years.

The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for
    the participating policies included in the closed block as it
    used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company
    establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that
    will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as
    described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over
    closed block assets at the effective date of the demutualization
    (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in
    accumulated other comprehensive income) represents the estimated
    maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result
    from operations attributed to the closed block after income
    taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income
    over the period the policies and contracts in the closed block
    remain in-force. Management believes that over time the actual
    cumulative earnings of the closed block will approximately equal
    the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend
    changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in
    existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block is
    greater

F-66

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block, the
    Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative earnings of
    the closed block over the expected cumulative earnings to closed
    block policyholders as additional policyholder dividends unless
    offset by future unfavorable experience of the closed block and,
    accordingly, will recognize only the expected cumulative
    earnings in income with the excess recorded as a policyholder
    dividend obligation. If over such period, the actual cumulative
    earnings of the closed block is less than the expected
    cumulative earnings of the closed block, the Company will
    recognize only the actual earnings in income. However, the
    Company may change policyholder dividend scales in the future,
    which would be intended to increase future actual earnings until
    the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected cumulative
    earnings.

F-67

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets
    designated to the closed block is as follows:

F-68

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend
    obligation is as follows:

Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses is
    as follows:

The change in the maximum future earnings of the closed block is
    as follows:

MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state
    and local premium taxes, and other additive state or local
    taxes, as well as investment management expenses relating to the
    closed block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the
    closed block for expenses of maintaining the policies included
    in the closed block.

F-69

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

10.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term and short-term debt outstanding is as follows:

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt as of
    December 31, 2007 for the next five years are
    $458 million in 2008, $536 million in 2009,
    $285 million in 2010, $966 million in 2011,
    $471 million in 2012 and $6,912 million thereafter.

Repurchase agreements and capital lease obligations are
    collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by
    unsecured senior debt which consists of senior notes, fixed rate
    notes and other notes with varying interest rates, followed by
    subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated
    debentures. Payments of interest and principal on the
    Company s surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other
    obligations at the operating company level and senior to
    obligations at the Holding Company, may be made only with the
    prior approval of the insurance department of the state of
    domicile. Collateral financing arrangements are supported by
    either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements
    with the Holding Company and accordingly have priority
    consistent with other such obligations.

Senior
    Notes   

In March 2007, RGA issued $300 million of
     10-year 
    senior notes with a fixed rate of 5.625%, payable semiannually.
    RGA used $50 million of the net proceeds of the offering to
    repay existing debt during the year ended December 31, 2007.

The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior
    note which matured in December 2006 and a $1,006 million
    3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005. RGA repaid a
    $100 million 7.25% senior note which matured in April
    2006.

In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on
    July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the
    Holding Company issued the following debt:

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1,000 million
    aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior notes due
    June 15, 2015 at a discount of $2.7 million
    ($997.3 million) and $1,000 million aggregate
    principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due June 15,
    2035 at a discount of $2.4 million ($997.6 million).
    In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred
    $12.4 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized
    and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized
    using the effective interest method over the respective term of
    the related senior notes.

F-70

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds
    sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal
    amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a
    discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million
    at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million
    pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). The senior
    notes were initially offered and sold outside the United States
    in reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ). In connection
    with the offering, the Holding Company incurred
    $3.7 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized
    and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized
    using the effective interest method over the term of the related
    senior notes.

Repurchase
    Agreements with Federal Home Loan Bank   

MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife Bank ) is
    a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $64 million and
    $54 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included
    in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also entered into
    repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MetLife Bank
    has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and for
    which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket lien on MetLife
    Bank s residential mortgages and mortgage-backed securities
    to collateralize MetLife Bank s obligations under the
    repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control over these
    pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of
    any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The repurchase
    agreements and the related security agreement represented by
    this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by
    MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the
    amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the outstanding
    repurchase agreements. During the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005, MetLife Bank received advances totaling
    $390 million, $260 million and $775 million,
    respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife Bank also made
    repayments of $175 million, $117 million and
    $25 million, respectively, for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The amount of the
    Company s liability for repurchase agreements with the FHLB
    of NY was $1.2 billion and $998 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included
    in long-term debt. The advances on these repurchase agreements
    are collateralized by residential mortgage-backed securities and
    residential mortgage loans with fair values of $1.3 billion
    at both December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Surplus
    Notes   

MLIC repaid a $250 million 7% surplus note which matured on
    November 1, 2005.

Short-term
    Debt   

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    the Company s short-term debt consisted of commercial paper
    with a weighted average interest rate of 5.0%, 5.2% and 3.4%,
    respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, the commercial paper s average daily balance
    was $1.6 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.0 billion,
    respectively, and was outstanding for an average of
    30 days, 39 days and 53 days, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense related to the Company s indebtedness
    included in other expenses was $633 million,
    $664 million and $529 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and does
    not include interest expense on collateral financing
    arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities, common equity
    units or shares subject to mandatory redemption. See
    Notes 11, 12, 13 and 14.

F-71

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Credit
    and Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit   

Credit Facilities.   The Company maintains
    committed and unsecured credit facilities aggregating
    $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2007. When drawn upon,
    these facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance
    with the respective agreements. The facilities can be used for
    general corporate purposes and at December 31, 2007,
    $3.0 billion of the facilities also served as
     back-up 
    lines of credit for the Company s commercial paper
    programs. Information on these credit facilities as of
    December 31, 2007 is as follows:

(1)  

In June 2007, the Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc.
    entered into a $3.0 billion credit agreement with various
    financial institutions, the proceeds of which are available to
    be used for general corporate purposes, to support their
    commercial paper programs and for the issuance of letters of
    credit. All borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid
    by June 2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon
    termination may remain outstanding until June 2013. The
    borrowers and the lenders under this facility may agree to
    extend the term of all or part of the facility to no later than
    June 2014, except that letters of credit outstanding upon
    termination may remain outstanding until June 2015. The
    $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an April 2009
    expiration, and the $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an
    April 2010 expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and
    replaced by the aforementioned facility. 

(2)  

In July 2007, the facility was extended for one year to July
    2008. 

(3)  

In September 2007, RGA and certain of its subsidiaries entered
    into a credit agreement with various financial institutions.
    Under the credit agreement, RGA may borrow and obtain letters of
    credit for general corporate purposes for its own account or for
    the account of its subsidiaries with an overall credit facility
    amount of up to $750 million. The credit agreement replaced
    a former credit agreement in the amount of $600 million
    which was scheduled to expire on September 29, 2010. 

Committed Facilities.   Information on committed
    facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:

F-72

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

As described in Note 11, RGA may, at its option, offer up
    to $150 million of additional notes under this facility in
    the future. 

(4)  

In May 2007, MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina
    ( MRSC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
    terminated the $2.0 billion amended and restated five-year
    letter of credit and reimbursement agreement entered into among
    the Holding Company, MRSC and various financial institutions on
    April 25, 2005. In its place, the Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 11,
    which may be extended by agreement of the Company and the
    financial institution on each anniversary of the closing of the
    facility for an additional one-year period. As of
    December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon
    under the collateral financing arrangement. 

(5)  

In December 2007, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd.
    ( Exeter ) terminated four letters of credit, with
    expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, that were
    issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution in an aggregate amount of
    $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as
    collateral for Exeter s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement that was recaptured by MLI-USA in December 2007.
    MLI-USA immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance
    agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont
    ( MRV ). To collateralize its reinsurance obligations,
    MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2007,
    the Company had outstanding $4.2 billion in letters of
    credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned
    credit facilities, from various financial institutions, of which
    $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion were part of committed
    and credit facilities, respectively. As commitments associated
    with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire
    unused, these amounts do not necessarily reflect the
    Company s actual future cash funding requirements.

11.    

Collateral
    Financing Arrangements  

Associated
    with the Closed Block   

In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block
    liabilities to MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston
    ( MRC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In
    connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors
    placed by an unaffiliated financial institution,
    $2.5 billion of
     35-year 
    surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the
    assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 55 basis points, payable quarterly. The ability
    of MRC to make interest and principal payments on the surplus
    notes is contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval.

Simultaneous with issuing the surplus notes, the Holding Company
    entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated financial
    institution, under which the Holding Company is entitled to the
    interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this
    agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to
    any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in
    connection with any early termination of this agreement.

A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus
    notes were placed in trust to support MRC s statutory
    obligations associated with the assumed closed block
    liabilities. The trust is a VIE which is consolidated by the
    Company.

At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of
    $1.9 billion associated with the transaction. The
    Company s consolidated balance sheet includes these assets
    as fixed maturity securities. The Company s consolidated
    statement of income includes the investment returns on the
    assets held as collateral as net

F-73

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

investment income and the interest on the collateral financing
    arrangement is included as a component of other expenses.

Total interest expense was $5 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Associated
    with Secondary Guarantees   

In May 2007, the Holding Company and MRSC entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial
    institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory
    reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations
    under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory
    reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees
    and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies
    Model Regulation (commonly referred to as
     Regulation A-XXX). 
    At December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon
    under the collateral financing arrangement. The collateral
    financing arrangement may be extended by agreement of the
    Holding Company and the unaffiliated financial institution on
    each anniversary of the closing.

Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed
    in trust to support MRSC s statutory obligations associated
    with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The trust is a VIE
    which is consolidated by the Company. The unaffiliated financial
    institution is entitled to the return on the investment
    portfolio held by the trust.

Simultaneous with entering into the collateral financing
    arrangement, the Holding Company entered into an agreement with
    the same unaffiliated financial institution under which the
    Holding Company is entitled to the return on the investment
    portfolio held by the trust established in connection with this
    collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of
    a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 70 basis points, payable quarterly. The Holding
    Company may also be required to make payments to the
    unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trust,
    related to any decline in the market value of the assets held by
    the trust, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early
    termination of the collateral financing arrangement.

At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of
    $2.3 billion associated with this transaction. The
    Company s consolidated balance sheet includes these assets
    as fixed maturity securities. The Company s consolidated
    statement of income includes the investment returns on the
    assets held as collateral as net investment income and the
    interest on the collateral financing arrangement is included as
    a component of other expenses.

Transaction costs associated with the collateral financing
    arrangement of $5 million have been capitalized, are
    included in other assets, and are amortized using the effective
    interest method over the period from the issuance of the
    collateral financing arrangement to its expiration. Total
    interest expense was $84 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Associated
    with RGA   

In June 2006, Timberlake Financial L.L.C., ( Timberlake
    Financial ), a subsidiary of RGA, completed an offering of
    $850 million of Series A Floating Rate Insured Notes
    due June 2036 in a private placement. Interest on the notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     1-month 
    LIBOR plus 29 basis points payable monthly. The payment of
    interest and principal on the notes is insured through a
    financial guaranty insurance policy with a third party. The
    notes represent senior, secured indebtedness of Timberlake
    Financial with no recourse to RGA or its other subsidiaries. Up
    to $150 million of additional notes may be offered in the
    future. In order to make payments of principal and interest on
    the notes, Timberlake Financial will rely upon the receipt of
    interest and principal payments on surplus note and dividend
    payments from its wholly-owned subsidiary, Timberlake
    Reinsurance Company II ( Timberlake Re ), a South
    Carolina captive insurance company. The ability of Timberlake Re
    to make interest and principal payments on the surplus note and
    dividend payments to Timberlake Financial is contingent upon
    South Carolina regulatory approval and the performance of
    specified term life insurance policies with guaranteed level
    premiums retroceded by RGA s subsidiary, RGA Reinsurance
    Company ( RGA Reinsurance ), to Timberlake Re.

F-74

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Proceeds from the offering of the notes, along with a
    $113 million direct investment by RGA, collateralize the
    notes and are not available to satisfy the general obligations
    of RGA or the Company. Most of these assets were placed in a
    trust and provide long-term collateral as support for statutory
    reserves required by U.S. Valuation of Life Policies Model
    Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation XXX) on term
    life insurance policies with guaranteed level premium periods
    reinsured by RGA Reinsurance. The trust is consolidated by
    Timberlake Re which in-turn is consolidated by Timberlake
    Financial. Timberlake Financial is considered to be a VIE and
    RGA is considered to be the primary beneficiary. As such, the
    results of Timberlake Financial have been consolidated by RGA
    and ultimately by the Company.

At December 31, 2007, the Company held assets in trust of
    $899 million associated with the transaction. In addition
    the Company held $50 million in custody as of
    December 31, 2007. The Company s consolidated balance
    sheets include the assets of Timberlake Financial recorded as
    fixed maturity securities and other invested assets, which
    consists of the restricted cash and cash equivalents held in
    custody. The Company s consolidated statements of income
    include the investment returns on the assets held as collateral
    as investment income and the interest on the notes is included
    as a component of other expenses.

Issuance costs associated with the offering of the notes of
    $13 million have been capitalized, are included in other
    assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method
    over the estimated life of the notes. Total interest expense was
    $52 million and $26 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

12.    

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures  

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures Underlying Common Equity
    Units   

In connection with the acquisition of Travelers on July 1,
    2005, the Holding Company issued on June 21, 2005
    $1,067 million 4.82% Series A and $1,067 million
    4.91% Series B junior subordinated debentures due no later
    than February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040,
    respectively, for a total of $2,134 million in connection
    with the common equity units more fully described in
    Note 13. Interest expense related to the junior
    subordinated debentures underlying common equity units was
    $104 million, $104 million and $55 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Other
    Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued by the Holding
    Company   

In December 2006, the Holding Company issued junior subordinated
    debentures with a face amount of $1.25 billion. The
    debentures are scheduled for redemption on December 15,
    2036; the final maturity of the debentures is December 15,
    2066. The Holding Company may redeem the debentures (i) in
    whole or in part, at any time on or after December 15, 2031
    at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to
    the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances,
    in whole or in part, prior to December 15, 2031 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest is
    payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.40% up to, but not
    including, December 15, 2036, the scheduled redemption
    date. In the event the debentures are not redeemed on or before
    the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an annual
    rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.205%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    debentures for a period up to ten years. Interest compounds
    during such periods of deferral. If interest is deferred for
    more than five consecutive years, the Holding Company may be
    required to use proceeds from the sale of its common stock or
    warrants on common stock to satisfy its obligation. In
    connection with the issuance of the debentures, the Holding
    Company entered into a replacement capital covenant
    ( RCC ). As part of the RCC, the Holding Company
    agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the
    debentures on or before December 15, 2056, unless, subject
    to certain limitations, it has received proceeds from the sale
    of specified capital securities. The RCC will terminate upon the
    occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the
    debentures due to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC
    is not intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and
    may not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of
    holders of one or more other designated series of its
    indebtedness

F-75

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due
    June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a
    replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2036 and
    under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial
    efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated
    with the offering of the debentures of $13 million have
    been capitalized, are included in other assets, and are
    amortized using the effective interest method over the period
    from the issuance date of the debentures until their scheduled
    redemption. Interest expense on the debentures was
    $80 million and $2 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV
    ( Trust IV ), a VIE consolidated by the Company,
    issued exchangeable surplus trust securities (the
     Trust Securities ) with a face amount of
    $700 million and a discount of $6 million
    ($694 million). The Trust Securities will be exchanged
    into a like amount of Holding Company junior subordinated
    debentures on December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption
    date; mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time
    upon the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the
    securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for
    junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment. The final
    maturity of the debentures is December 15, 2067. The
    Holding Company may cause the redemption of the
    Trust Securities or debentures (i) in whole or in
    part, at any time on or after December 15, 2032 at their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or
    in part, prior to December 15, 2032 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. Interest on the
    Trust Securities or debentures is payable semi-annually at
    a fixed rate of 7.875% up to, but not including,
    December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date. In the
    event the Trust Securities or debentures are not redeemed
    on or before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue
    at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The Holding Company has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    Trust Securities or debentures for a period up to ten
    years. Interest compounds during such periods of deferral. If
    interest is deferred for more than five consecutive years, the
    Holding Company may be required to use proceeds from the sale of
    its common stock or warrants on common stock to satisfy its
    obligation. In connection with the issuance of the
    Trust Securities, the Holding Company entered into a RCC.
    As a part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will
    not repay, redeem, or purchase the debentures on or before
    December 15, 2057, unless, subject to certain limitations,
    it has received proceeds from the sale of specified capital
    securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
    certain events, including an acceleration of the debentures due
    to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not
    intended for the benefit of holders of the debentures and may
    not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders
    of one or more other designated series of its indebtedness
    (which will initially be its 5.70% senior notes due
    June 15, 2035). The Holding Company also entered into a
    replacement capital obligation which will commence in 2037 and
    under which the Holding Company must use reasonable commercial
    efforts to raise replacement capital through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities. Issuance costs associated
    with the offering of the Trust Securities of
    $10 million have been capitalized, are included in other
    assets, and are amortized using the effective interest method
    over the period from the issuance date of the
    Trust Securities until their scheduled redemption. Interest
    expense on the Trust Securities was $3 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures Issued by RGA   

In December 2005, RGA issued junior subordinated debentures with
    a face amount of $400 million. Interest is payable
    semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.75% up to but not including
    the scheduled redemption date, December 15, 2015. The
    debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any
    time on or after December 15, 2015 at their principal
    amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
    redemption, or (ii) in whole or in part, prior to
    December 15, 2015 at their principal amount plus accrued
    and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a
    make-whole price. In the event the debentures are not redeemed
    on or before the scheduled redemption date of December 15,
    2015, interest on these debentures will accrue at an annual rate
    of  3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 2.665%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. The final maturity of the debentures is
    December 15, 2065. RGA has the right to, and in certain
    circumstances the requirement to, defer interest payments on the
    debentures for

F-76

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

a period up to ten years. Upon an optional or mandatory deferral
    of interest payments, RGA is generally not permitted to pay
    common stock dividends or make payments of interest or principal
    on securities which rank equal or junior to the subordinated
    debentures, until the accrued and unpaid interest on the
    subordinated debentures is paid. Interest compounds during
    periods of deferral. Issuance costs associated with the offering
    of the debentures of $6 million have been capitalized, are
    included in other assets, and are amortized using the effective
    interest method over the period from the issuance date of the
    debentures until their scheduled redemption. Interest expense on
    the debentures was $27 million, $27 million and
    $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively.

In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on
    July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the
    Holding Company distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375%
    common equity units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a
    registered public offering on June 21, 2005. As described
    below, the common equity units consist of interests in trust
    preferred securities issued by MetLife Capital Trusts II
    and III, and stock purchase contracts issued by the Holding
    Company. The only assets of MetLife Capital Trusts II
    and III are junior subordinated debentures issued by the
    Holding Company.

Common
    Equity Units   

Each common equity unit has an initial stated amount of $25 per
    unit and consists of: (i) a 1/80 or 1.25% ($12.50),
    undivided beneficial ownership interest in a series A trust
    preferred security of MetLife Capital Trust II
    ( Series A Trust ), with an initial liquidation
    amount of $1,000; (ii) a
     1 / 80 
    or 1.25% ($12.50), undivided beneficial ownership interest in a
    series B trust preferred security of MetLife Capital
    Trust III ( Series B Trust  and, together
    with the Series A Trust, the  Capital Trusts ),
    with an initial liquidation amount of $1,000; (iii) a stock
    purchase contract under which the holder of the common equity
    unit will purchase and the Holding Company will sell, on each of
    the initial stock purchase date and the subsequent stock
    purchase date, a variable number of shares of the Holding
    Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for a
    purchase price of $12.50.

Junior
    Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and
    Preferred Securities   

The Holding Company issued $1,067 million 4.82%
    Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B junior
    subordinated debt securities due no later than February 15,
    2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively, for a total of
    $2,134 million, in exchange for $2,070 million in
    aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred
    securities by the Capital Trusts and $64 million in trust
    common securities issued equally by the Capital Trusts. The
    common and preferred securities of the Capital Trusts, totaling
    $2,134 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership
    interests in the assets of the Capital Trusts, have no stated
    maturity and must be redeemed upon maturity of the corresponding
    series of junior subordinated debt securities   the
    sole assets of the respective Capital Trusts. The Series A
    Trust and Series B Trust will each make quarterly
    distributions on the common and preferred securities at an
    annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91%, respectively.

The trust common securities, which are held by the Holding
    Company, represent a 3% interest in the Trusts and are reflected
    as fixed maturity securities in the consolidated balance sheet
    of MetLife, Inc. The Capital Trusts are VIEs in accordance with
    FIN 46(r), and the Company does not consolidate its
    interest in MetLife Capital Trusts II and III as it is
    not the primary beneficiary of either of the Capital Trusts.

The Holding Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the
    trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent
    that there are funds available in the Capital Trusts. The
    guarantee will remain in place until the full redemption of the
    trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held
    by the common equity unit holders are pledged to the Holding
    Company to collateralize the obligation of the common equity
    unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The
    common equity unit holder may substitute certain zero coupon
    treasury securities in place of the trust preferred securities
    as collateral under the stock purchase contract.

F-77

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The trust preferred securities have remarketing dates which
    correspond with the initial and subsequent stock purchase dates
    to provide the holders of the common equity units with the
    proceeds to exercise the stock purchase contracts. The initial
    stock purchase date is expected to be August 15, 2008, but
    could be deferred for quarterly periods until February 15,
    2009, and the subsequent stock purchase date is expected to be
    February 15, 2009, but could be deferred for quarterly
    periods until February 15, 2010. At the remarketing date,
    the remarketing agent will have the ability to reset the
    interest rate on the trust preferred securities to generate
    sufficient remarketing proceeds to satisfy the common equity
    unit holder s obligation under the stock purchase contract,
    subject to a reset cap for each of the first two attempted
    remarketings of each series. The interest rate on the supporting
    junior subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding
    Company will be reset at a commensurate rate. If the initial
    remarketing is unsuccessful, the remarketing agent will attempt
    to remarket the trust preferred securities, as necessary, in
    subsequent quarters through February 15, 2009 for the
    Series A trust preferred securities and through
    February 15, 2010 for the Series B trust preferred
    securities. The final attempt at remarketing will not be subject
    to the reset cap. If all remarketing attempts are unsuccessful,
    the Holding Company has the right, as a secured party, to apply
    the liquidation amount on the trust preferred securities to the
    common equity unit holders obligation under the stock purchase
    contract and to deliver to the common equity unit holder a
    junior subordinated debt security payable on August 15,
    2010 at an annual rate of 4.82% and 4.91% on the Series A
    and Series B trust preferred securities, respectively, in
    payment of any accrued and unpaid distributions.

Stock
    Purchase Contracts   

Each stock purchase contract requires the holder of the common
    equity unit to purchase, and the Holding Company to sell, for
    $12.50, on each of the initial stock purchase date and the
    subsequent stock purchase date, a number of newly issued or
    treasury shares of the Holding Company s common stock, par
    value $0.01 per share, equal to the applicable settlement rate.
    The settlement rate at the respective stock purchase date will
    be calculated based on the closing price of the common stock
    during a specified
     20-day 
    period immediately preceding the applicable stock purchase date.
    If the market value of the Holding Company s common stock
    is less than the threshold appreciation price of $53.10 but
    greater than $43.35, the reference price, the settlement rate
    will be a number of the Holding Company s common stock
    equal to the stated amount of $12.50 divided by the market
    value. If the market value is less than or equal to the
    reference price, the settlement rate will be 0.28835 shares
    of the Holding Company s common stock. If the market value
    is greater than or equal to the threshold appreciation price,
    the settlement rate will be 0.23540 shares of the Holding
    Company s common stock as adjusted in accordance with the
    terms of the stock purchase contracts. Accordingly, upon
    settlement in the aggregate, the Holding Company will receive
    proceeds of $2,070 million and issue between
    39.0 million and 47.8 million shares of its common
    stock. The stock purchase contract may be exercised at the
    option of the holder at any time prior to the settlement date.
    However, upon early settlement, the holder will receive the
    minimum settlement rate.

The stock purchase contracts further require the Holding Company
    to pay the holder of the common equity unit quarterly contract
    payments on the stock purchase contracts at the annual rate of
    1.510% on the stated amount of $25 per stock purchase contract
    until the initial stock purchase date and at the annual rate of
    1.465% on the remaining stated amount of $12.50 per stock
    purchase contract thereafter.

The quarterly distributions on the Series A and
    Series B trust preferred securities of 4.82% and 4.91%,
    respectively, combined with the contract payments on the stock
    purchase contract of 1.510%, (1.465% after the initial stock
    purchase date) result in the 6.375% yield on the common equity
    units.

If the Holding Company defers any of the contract payments on
    the stock purchase contract, then it will accrue additional
    amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 6.375%
    until paid, to the extent permitted by law.

The value of the stock purchase contracts at issuance,
    $96.6 million, were calculated as the present value of the
    future contract payments due under the stock purchase contract
    of 1.510% through the initial stock purchase date, and 1.465% up
    to the subsequent stock purchase date, discounted at the
    interest rate on the supporting junior subordinated debt
    securities issued by the Holding Company, 4.82% or 4.91% on the
    Series A and Series B trust

F-78

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

preferred securities, respectively. The value of the stock
    purchase contracts was recorded in other liabilities with an
    offsetting decrease in additional paid-in capital. The other
    liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts will
    accrue interest at the discount rate of 4.82% or 4.91%, as
    applicable, with an offsetting increase to interest expense.
    When the contract payments are made under the stock purchase
    contracts they will reduce the other liability balance. During
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the
    Holding Company increased the other liability balance for the
    accretion of the discount on the contract payment of
    $2 million, $3 million and $2 million and made
    contract payments of $31 million, $31 million and
    $13 million, respectively.

Issuance
    Costs   

In connection with the offering of common equity units, the
    Holding Company incurred $55.3 million of issuance costs of
    which $5.8 million relate to the issuance of the junior
    subordinated debt securities underlying common equity units
    which fund the Series A and Series B trust preferred
    securities and $49.5 million relate to the expected
    issuance of the common stock under the stock purchase contracts.
    The $5.8 million in debt issuance costs have been
    capitalized, are included in other assets, and are being
    amortized using the effective interest method over the period
    from issuance date of the common equity units to the initial and
    subsequent stock purchase date. The remaining $49.5 million
    of costs relate to the common stock issuance under the stock
    purchase contracts and have been recorded as a reduction of
    additional paid-in capital.

Earnings
    Per Common Share   

The stock purchase contracts are reflected in diluted earnings
    per common share using the treasury stock method, and are
    dilutive when the average closing price of the Company s
    common stock for each of the 20 trading days before the close of
    the accounting period is greater than or equal to the threshold
    appreciation price of $53.10. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, the average closing price for
    each of the 20 trading days before December 31 was greater than
    the threshold appreciation price. Accordingly, the stock
    purchase contracts were included in diluted earnings per common
    share for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
    During the period from the date of issuance through
    December 31, 2005, the average closing price for each of
    the 20 trading days before December 31 was less than the
    threshold appreciate price. Accordingly, the stock purchase
    contracts were excluded in diluted earnings per common share for
    the year ended December 31, 2005. See Note 20.

14.    

Shares Subject
    to Mandatory Redemption and Company-Obligated Mandatorily
    Redeemable Securities of Subsidiary Trusts  

GenAmerica Capital I.   In June 1997, GenAmerica
    Corporation ( GenAmerica ) issued $125 million of
    8.525% capital securities through a wholly-owned subsidiary
    trust, GenAmerica Capital I. In October 2007, GenAmerica
    redeemed these securities which were due to mature on
    June 30, 2027. As a result of this redemption, the Company
    recognized additional interest expense of $10 million.
    Capital securities outstanding were $119 million, net of
    unamortized discounts of $6 million at December 31,
    2006. Interest expense on these instruments is included in other
    expenses and was $20 million, $11 million and
    $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
    2006 and 2005, respectively.

RGA Capital Trust I.   In December 2001,
    RGA, through its wholly-owned trust, RGA Capital Trust I
    (the  RGA Trust ), issued 4,500,000 Preferred Income
    Equity Redeemable Securities ( PIERS ) Units. Each
    PIERS unit consists of: (i) a preferred security issued by
    the RGA Trust, having a stated liquidation amount of $50 per
    unit, representing an undivided beneficial ownership interest in
    the assets of the RGA Trust, which consist solely of junior
    subordinated debentures issued by RGA which have a principal
    amount at maturity of $50 and a stated maturity of
    March 18, 2051; and (ii) a warrant to purchase, at any
    time prior to December 15, 2050, 1.2508 shares of RGA
    stock at an exercise price of $50.

The fair market value of the warrant on the issuance date was
    $14.87 and is detachable from the preferred security. RGA fully
    and unconditionally guarantees, on a subordinated basis, the
    obligations of the Trust under the

F-79

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

preferred securities. The preferred securities and subordinated
    debentures were issued at a discount (original issue discount)
    to the face or liquidation value of $14.87 per security. The
    securities will accrete to their $50 face/liquidation value over
    the life of the security on a level yield basis. The weighted
    average effective interest rate on the preferred securities and
    the subordinated debentures is 8.25% per annum. Capital
    securities outstanding were $159 million, net of
    unamortized discounts of $66 million at both
    December 31, 2007 and 2006. Interest expense on these
    instruments is included in other expenses and was
    $13 million for each of the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005.

The provision for income tax from continuing operations is as
    follows:

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the
    U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income tax as
    reported for continuing operations is as follows:

Included in the 2005 total tax provision was a $27 million
    tax benefit related to the repatriation of foreign earnings
    pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 965 for which a
    U.S. deferred tax position had previously been recorded.

F-80

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net
    deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the
    following:

Domestic net operating loss carryforwards amount to
    $2,057 million at December 31, 2007 and will expire
    beginning in 2019. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards
    amount to $725 million at December 31, 2007 and were
    generated in various foreign countries with expiration periods
    of five years to indefinite expiration. Capital loss
    carryforwards amount to $463 million at December 31,
    2007 and will expire beginning in 2010. Tax credit carryforwards
    amount to $24 million at December 31, 2007.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance related to tax
    benefits of certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards.
    The valuation allowance reflects management s assessment,
    based on available information, that it is more likely than not
    that the deferred income tax asset for certain foreign net
    operating loss carryforwards will not be realized. The tax
    benefit will be recognized when management believes that it is
    more likely than not that these deferred income tax assets are
    realizable. In 2007, the Company recorded a reduction of
    $104 million to the deferred income tax valuation allowance
    related to certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards and
    other deferred tax assets.

The Company files income tax returns with the U.S. federal
    government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as
    foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous
    examination by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS )
    and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company
    has significant business operations. The income tax years under
    examination vary by jurisdiction. With a few exceptions, the
    Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and
    local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax authorities for
    years prior

F-81

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

to 2000. In the first quarter of 2005, the IRS commenced an
    examination of the Company s U.S. income tax returns
    for 2000 through 2002 that is anticipated to be completed in
    2008.

As a result of the implementation of FIN 48 on
    January 1, 2007, the Company recognized a $52 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, a
    $4 million decrease in the interest liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, and a corresponding reduction to the
    January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings of
    $37 million, net of $11 million of minority interest.
    The Company s total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
    upon adoption of FIN 48 was $1,128 million. The
    Company reclassified, at adoption, $611 million of current
    income tax payables to the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits included within other liabilities. The Company also
    reclassified, at adoption, $465 million of deferred income
    tax liabilities, for which the ultimate deductibility is highly
    certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of
    such deductibility, to the liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting,
    other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the
    shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual
    effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to
    the taxing authority to an earlier period. The total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits as of January 1, 2007 that would
    affect the effective tax rate, if recognized, was
    $680 million. The Company also had $240 million of
    accrued interest, included within other liabilities, as of
    January 1, 2007. The Company classifies interest accrued
    related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense, while
    penalties are included within income tax expense.

As of December 31, 2007, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is $1,038 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, is $593 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by
    $90 million from the date of adoption primarily due to
    settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain
    significant issues involving demutualization, post-sale purchase
    price adjustments, and reinsurance offset by additions for tax
    positions of the current year. As a result of the settlements,
    items within the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, in the
    amount of $177 million, were reclassified to current and
    deferred income taxes, as applicable, and a payment of
    $156 million was made in December of 2007 with the
    remaining $21 million to be paid in future years. In
    addition, the Company s liability for unrecognized tax
    benefits may change significantly in the next 12 months
    pending the outcome of remaining issues associated with the
    current IRS audit including demutualization, leasing, tax-exempt
    income, transfer pricing and tax credits. Management is working
    to resolve the remaining audit items directly with IRS auditors
    as well as through available accelerated IRS resolution programs
    and may protest any unresolved issues through the IRS appeals
    process and, possibly, litigation, the timing and extent of
    which is uncertain. Therefore, a reasonable estimate of the
    range of a payment or change in the liability cannot be made at
    this time; however, the Company continues to believe that the
    ultimate resolution of the issues will not result in a material
    effect on its consolidated financial statements, although the
    resolution of income tax matters could impact the Company s
    effective tax rate for a particular future period.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits for the year ended December 31,
    2007, is as follows:

Total Unrecognized 

Tax Benefits 

(In millions) 

Balance at January 1, 2007 (date of adoption)

$

1,128

Additions for tax positions of prior years

73

Reductions for tax positions of prior years

(59

)

Additions for tax positions of current year

85

Reductions for tax positions of current year

(8

)

Settlements with tax authorities

(177

)

Lapses of statutes of limitations

(4

)

Balance at December 31, 2007

$

1,038

F-82

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
    recognized $98 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. As of
    December 31, 2007, the Company had $252 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $12 million increase, from the date of
    adoption, in accrued interest associated with the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an increase of
    $98 million of interest expense and an $86 million
    decrease primarily resulting from the aforementioned IRS
    settlements. During 2007, $73 million of the
    $86 million, resulting from IRS settlements, has been
    reclassified to current income tax payable and the remaining
    $13 million reduced interest expense.

On September 25, 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling
     2007-61, 
    which announced its intention to issue regulations with respect
    to certain computational aspects of the Dividends Received
    Deduction ( DRD ) on separate account assets held in
    connection with variable annuity contracts. Revenue Ruling
     2007-61 
    suspended a revenue ruling issued in August 2007 that would have
    changed accepted industry and IRS interpretations of the
    statutes governing these computational questions. Any
    regulations that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in
    this area will be subject to public notice and comment, at which
    time insurance companies and other interested parties will have
    the opportunity to raise legal and practical questions about the
    content, scope and application of such regulations. As a result,
    the ultimate timing and substance of any such regulations are
    unknown at this time. For the year ended December 31, 2007,
    the Company recognized an income tax benefit of
    $188 million related to the separate account DRD.

16.    

Contingencies,
    Commitments and Guarantees  

Contingencies  

Litigation   

The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation
    matters. In some of the matters, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States
    permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
    damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not
    to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants
    to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
    jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may
    permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well
    exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for
    similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with
    the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving
    through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of
    time, demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which
    may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to
    its merits or disposition value. Thus, unless stated below, the
    specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be inherently impossible to
    ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties
    can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
    totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness
    of witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
    information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. The review includes senior legal and financial
    personnel. In 2007, the Company received $39 million upon
    the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the
    2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company
    ( GALIC ), and the Company reduced legal liabilities
    by $38 million after the settlement of certain cases.
    Unless stated below, estimates of possible losses or ranges of
    loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be
    made with a reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are
    established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred
    and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
    Liabilities have been established for a number of the matters
    noted below; in 2007

F-83

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the Company increased legal liabilities for pending sales
    practices, employment, property and casualty and intellectual
    property litigation matters against the Company. It is possible
    that some of the matters could require the Company to pay
    damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in
    amounts that could not be estimated as of December 31, 2007.

Demutualization
    Actions  

Several lawsuits were brought in 2000 challenging the fairness
    of the Plan and the adequacy and accuracy of MLIC s
    disclosure to policyholders regarding the Plan. The actions
    discussed below name as defendants some or all of MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. MLIC, the Holding
    Company, and the individual directors believe they have
    meritorious defenses to the plaintiffs  claims and are
    contesting vigorously all of the plaintiffs  claims in
    these actions.

Fiala, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (Sup.
    Ct., N.Y. County, filed March 17, 2000).   The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated state court class actions seek
    compensatory relief and punitive damages against MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. On January 30,
    2007, the trial court signed an order certifying a litigation
    class of present and former policyholders on plaintiffs 
    claim that defendants violated section 7312 of the New York
    Insurance Law, but denying plaintiffs  motion to certify a
    litigation class with respect to a common law fraud claim.
    Plaintiffs and defendants have filed notices of appeal from this
    order. The court has directed various forms of class notice.

In re MetLife Demutualization Litig. (E.D.N.Y., filed
    April 18, 2000).   In this class action
    against MLIC and the Holding Company, plaintiffs served a second
    consolidated amended complaint in 2004. Plaintiffs assert
    violations of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), in
    connection with the Plan, claiming that the Policyholder
    Information Booklets failed to disclose certain material facts
    and contained certain material misstatements. They seek
    rescission and compensatory damages. By orders dated
    July 19, 2005 and August 29, 2006, the federal trial
    court certified a litigation class of present and former
    policyholders. The court has not yet directed the manner and
    form of class notice.

Asbestos-Related
    Claims  

MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of
    asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These
    suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs
    suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and
    seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in
    the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or
    selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC
    issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to
    companies in the business of manufacturing, producing,
    distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned
    of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other
    things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health
    risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in
    these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters,
    however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables,
    including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions,
    the nature of the alleged injury, and factors unrelated to the
    ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC
    employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos
    loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending
    litigation by judicial rulings and settling litigation under
    appropriate circumstances.

Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence,
    intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
    associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of
    certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no
    duty to the plaintiffs   it had no special
    relationship with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture,
    produce, distribute or sell the asbestos products that allegedly
    injured plaintiffs; (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any
    actions of MLIC; (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the
    cause of the plaintiffs  injuries;
    (iv) plaintiffs  exposure occurred after the dangers
    of asbestos were known; and (v) the applicable time with
    respect to filing suit has expired. During the

F-84

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

course of the litigation, certain trial courts have granted
    motions dismissing claims against MLIC, while other trial courts
    have denied MLIC s motions to dismiss. There can be no
    assurance that MLIC will receive favorable decisions on motions
    in the future. While most cases brought to date have settled,
    MLIC intends to continue to defend aggressively against claims
    based on asbestos exposure, including defending claims at trials.

The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims
    pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate
    number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and
    the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve
    asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set
    forth in the following table:

(1)  

Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the
    year in connection with settlements made in that year and in
    prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys 
    fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from
    insurance carriers. 

In 2004, MLIC received approximately 23,900 new claims, ending
    the year with a total of approximately 108,000 claims, and paid
    approximately $85.5 million for settlements reached in 2004
    and prior years. In 2003, MLIC received approximately 58,750 new
    claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 111,700
    claims, and paid approximately $84.2 million for
    settlements reached in 2003 and prior years. The number of
    asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of
    any liability that MLIC may ultimately incur is uncertain.

The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims.
    MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its
    estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts
    presently known to it, its understanding of current law, and its
    past experiences: (i) the reasonably probable and estimable
    liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC,
    including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the
    reasonably probable and estimable liability for asbestos claims
    not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are
    reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal
    defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant
    assumptions underlying MLIC s analysis of the adequacy of
    its recorded liability with respect to asbestos litigation
    include: (i) the number of future claims; (ii) the
    cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the cost to defend claims.

MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure
    from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
    experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos
    claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant
    trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous
    variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
    overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies
    of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative
    and judicial developments, the number of pending claims
    involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
    against it and other defendants, and the jurisdictions in which
    claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC
    increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by
    $402 million from approximately $820 million to
    $1,225 million. MLIC regularly reevaluates its exposure
    from asbestos litigation and has updated its liability analysis
    for asbestos-related claims through December 31, 2007.

The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure
    is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions
    impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change.
    The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult
    to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can
    affect liability estimates, including the number of future
    claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity
    of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the
    number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and
    variations in the law in the

F-85

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure to
    asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were
    well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse
    verdicts and their amounts.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos
    exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years
    further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is
    a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
    reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
    Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be
    materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued
    and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the
    potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on
    information currently known by management, management does not
    believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position.

During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provide for
    recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion, which is in excess
    of a $400 million self-insured retention. The
    Company s initial option to commute the excess insurance
    policies for asbestos-related claims arises at the end of 2008.
    Thereafter, the Company will have a commutation right every five
    years. The excess insurance policies for asbestos-related claims
    are also subject to annual and per claim sublimits. Amounts
    exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and 2005 were
    approximately $16 million, $8 million and $0,
    respectively. The Company continues to study per claim averages,
    and there can be no assurance as to the number and cost of
    claims resolved in the future, including related defense costs,
    and the applicability of the sublimits to these costs. Amounts
    are recoverable under the policies annually with respect to
    claims paid during the prior calendar year. Although amounts
    paid by MLIC in any given year that may be recoverable in the
    next calendar year under the policies will be reflected as a
    reduction in the Company s operating cash flows for the
    year in which they are paid, management believes that the
    payments will not have a material adverse effect on the
    Company s liquidity.

Each asbestos-related policy contains an experience fund and a
    reference fund that provide for payments to MLIC at the
    commutation date if the reference fund is greater than zero at
    commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss
    reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference
    fund is less than the return specified in the experience fund.
    The return in the reference fund is tied to performance of the
    Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500
    Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. A claim with
    respect to the prior year was made under the excess insurance
    policies in each year from 2003 through 2007 for the amounts
    paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of the
    retention. As the performance of the indices impacts the return
    in the reference fund, it is possible that loss reimbursements
    to the Company and the recoverable amount with respect to later
    periods may be less than the amount of the recorded losses.
    Foregone loss reimbursements may be recovered upon commutation
    depending upon future performance of the reference fund. If at
    some point in the future, the Company believes the liability for
    probable and reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related
    claims should be increased, an expense would be recorded and the
    insurance recoverable would be adjusted subject to the terms,
    conditions and limits of the excess insurance policies. Portions
    of the change in the insurance recoverable would be recorded as
    a deferred gain and amortized into income over the estimated
    remaining settlement period of the insurance policies. The
    foregone loss reimbursements were approximately
    $56.1 million with respect to claims for the period of 2002
    through 2006 and are estimated, as of December 31, 2007, to
    be approximately $69.1 million in the aggregate, including
    future years.

Sales
    Practices Claims  

Over the past several years, MLIC; New England Mutual Life
    Insurance Company, New England Life Insurance Company and New
    England Securities Corporation (collectively  New
    England  GALIC; Walnut Street Securities, Inc.
    ( Walnut Street Securities ) and MetLife Securities,
    Inc. ( MSI ) have faced numerous claims, including
    class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of
    individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or
    other products.

F-86

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 130 sales
    practices litigation matters pending against the Company. The
    Company continues to vigorously defend against the claims in
    these matters. Some sales practices claims have been resolved
    through settlement. Other sales practices claims have been won
    by dispositive motions or have gone to trial. Most of the
    current cases seek substantial damages, including in some cases
    punitive and treble damages and attorneys  fees. Additional
    litigation relating to the Company s marketing and sales of
    individual life insurance, mutual funds or other products may be
    commenced in the future.

Two putative class action lawsuits involving sales practices
    claims are pending against MLIC in Canada. In  Jacynthe
    Evoy-Larouche v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Que. Super.
    Ct., filed March 1998) , plaintiff alleges misrepresentations
    regarding dividends and future payments for life insurance
    policies and seeks unspecified damages. In  Ace Quan v.
    Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. (Ont. Gen. Div., filed April
    1997) , plaintiff alleges breach of contract and negligent
    misrepresentations relating to, among other things, life
    insurance premium payments and seeks damages, including punitive
    damages.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to MLIC s,
    New England s, GALIC s, MSI s or Walnut
    Street Securities  sales of individual life insurance
    policies or annuities or other products. Over the past several
    years, these and a number of investigations by other regulatory
    authorities were resolved for monetary payments and certain
    other relief. The Company may continue to resolve investigations
    in a similar manner. The Company believes adequate provision has
    been made in its consolidated financial statements for all
    probable and reasonably estimable losses for sales practices
    claims against MLIC, New England, GALIC, MSI and Walnut Street
    Securities.

Property
    and Casualty Actions  

Katrina-Related Litigation.   There are a number
    of lawsuits, including a few putative class actions and
     mass  actions, pending in Louisiana and Mississippi
    against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company
    relating to Hurricane Katrina. The lawsuits include claims by
    policyholders for coverage for damages stemming from Hurricane
    Katrina, including for damages resulting from flooding or storm
    surge. The deadline for filing actions in Louisiana has expired.
    It is reasonably possible that additional actions will be filed
    in other states. The Company intends to continue to defend
    vigorously against these matters, although appropriate matters
    may be resolved as part of the ordinary claims adjustment
    process.

Shipley v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. and
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (Ill. Cir. Ct.,
    Madison County, filed February 26 and July 2,
    2003).   Two putative nationwide class actions have
    been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
    Company in Illinois. One suit claims breach of contract and
    fraud due to the alleged underpayment of medical claims arising
    from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing
    system. A motion for class certification has been filed and
    briefed. The second suit currently alleges breach of contract
    arising from the alleged use of preferred provider organizations
    to reduce medical provider fees covered by the medical claims
    portion of the insurance policy. A motion for class
    certification has been filed and briefed. A third putative
    nationwide class action relating to the payment of medical
    providers,  Innovative Physical Therapy, Inc. v. MetLife
    Auto   Home, et ano (D. N.J., filed November 12,
    2007)  has been filed against Metropolitan Property and
    Casualty Insurance Company in federal court in New Jersey. The
    Company is vigorously defending against the claims in these
    matters.

Regulatory
    Matters  

The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other
    inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance
    commissioners; state attorneys general or other state
    governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC;
    federal governmental authorities, including congressional
    committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    seeking a broad range of information. The issues involved in
    information requests and regulatory matters vary widely. Certain
    regulators have requested information and documents regarding
    contingent commission payments to brokers, the Company s
    awareness of any  sham  bids for business, bids and

F-87

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

quotes that the Company submitted to potential customers,
    incentive agreements entered into with brokers, or compensation
    paid to intermediaries. Regulators also have requested
    information relating to market timing and late trading of mutual
    funds and variable insurance products and, generally, the
    marketing of products. The Company has received a subpoena from
    the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District
    of California asking for documents regarding the insurance
    broker Universal Life Resources. The Company has been
    cooperating fully with these inquiries.

In 2005, MSI received a notice from the Illinois Department of
    Securities asserting possible violations of the Illinois
    Securities Act in connection with sales of a former
    affiliate s mutual funds. A response has been submitted and
    in January 2008, MSI received notice of the commencement of an
    administrative action by the Illinois Department of Securities.
    MSI intends to vigorously defend against the claims in this
    matter.

Other
    Litigation  

In Re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig. (D. N.J., filed
    February 24, 2005).   In this multi-district
    proceeding, plaintiffs filed a class action complaint
    consolidating claims from several separate actions that had been
    filed in or transferred to the District of New Jersey in 2004
    and 2005. The consolidated complaint alleged that the Holding
    Company, MLIC, several non-affiliated insurance companies and
    several insurance brokers violated the Racketeer Influenced and
    Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), the Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ), and
    antitrust laws and committed other misconduct in the context of
    providing insurance to employee benefit plans and to persons who
    participate in such employee benefit plans. In August and
    September 2007, the court issued orders granting
    defendants  motions to dismiss with prejudice the federal
    antitrust and the RICO claims. In January 2008, the court issued
    an order granting defendants  summary judgment motion on
    the ERISA claims, and in February 2008, the court dismissed the
    remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds. Plaintiffs
    have filed a notice of appeal of the court s decisions. A
    putative class action alleging that the Holding Company and
    other non-affiliated defendants violated state laws was
    transferred to the District of New Jersey but was not
    consolidated with other related actions. Plaintiffs  motion
    to remand this action to state court in Florida is pending.

The American Dental Association, et al. v. MetLife Inc., et
    al. (S.D. Fla., filed May 19, 2003).   The
    American Dental Association and three individual providers have
    sued the Holding Company, MLIC and other non-affiliated
    insurance companies in a putative class action lawsuit. The
    plaintiffs purport to represent a nationwide class of
     in-network 
    providers who allege that their claims are being wrongfully
    reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and
    programming of software. The complaint alleges federal
    racketeering and various state law theories of liability. The
    district court has granted in part and denied in part the
    Company s motion to dismiss. The plaintiffs filed an
    amended complaint, and the Company filed another motion to
    dismiss. The court has issued a tag-along order, related to a
    medical managed care trial, which has stayed the lawsuit.

Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D.
    Okla., filed January 31, 2007).   A putative
    class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI.
    Plaintiffs assert legal theories of violations of the federal
    securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the
    sale of certain proprietary products by the Company s
    agency distribution group. Plaintiffs seek rescission,
    compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees and expenses. The Company is vigorously
    defending against the claims in this matter.

MLIC also has been named as a defendant in a number of welding
    and mixed dust lawsuits filed in various state and federal
    courts. The Company is continuing to vigorously defend against
    these claims.

Summary  

Putative or certified class action litigation and other
    litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in
    addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise
    provided for in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s
    business, including, but not limited to, in

F-88

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

connection with its activities as an insurer, employer,
    investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state
    insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state
    authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations
    concerning the Company s compliance with applicable
    insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all
    pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses, except as noted
    previously in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to previously, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Insolvency
    Assessments   

Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to
    transact business require insurers doing business within the
    jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are
    organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets. Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments
    are as follows:

(1)  

The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior
    acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 

Assessments levied against the Company were ($1) million,
    $2 million and $4 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Impact
    of Hurricanes   

On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the
    states of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, causing
    catastrophic damage to these coastal regions. MetLife s
    cumulative gross losses from Hurricane Katrina were
    $314 million, $333 million and $335 million at
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, primarily
    arising from the Company s homeowners business. During the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company
    recognized net losses, net of income tax and reinsurance
    recoverables and including reinstatement premiums and other
    reinsurance-related premium adjustments related to the
    catastrophe, of ($13) million, ($2) million and
    $134 million, respectively.

F-89

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

On October 24, 2005, Hurricane Wilma made landfall across
    the state of Florida. MetLife s cumulative gross losses
    from Hurricane Wilma were $66 million, $64 million and
    $57 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, primarily arising from the Company s
    homeowners and automobile businesses. During the years ended
    December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company s
    Auto   Home segment recognized net losses, net of
    income tax and reinsurance recoverables, of ($3) million and
    $32 million, respectively, related to Hurricane Wilma. The
    Company did not recognize any loss during the year ended
    December 31, 2007, related to Hurricane Wilma.

Additional hurricane-related losses may be recorded in future
    periods as claims are received from insureds and claims to
    reinsurers are processed. Reinsurance recoveries are dependent
    upon the continued creditworthiness of the reinsurers, which may
    be affected by their other reinsured losses in connection with
    Hurricanes Katrina and Wilma and otherwise. In addition,
    lawsuits, including purported class actions, have been filed in
    Louisiana and Mississippi challenging denial of claims for
    damages caused to property during Hurricane Katrina.
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is a named
    party in some of these lawsuits. In addition, rulings in cases
    in which Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company is
    not a party may affect interpretation of its policies.
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company intends to
    vigorously defend these matters. However, any adverse rulings
    could result in an increase in the Company s
    hurricane-related claim exposure and losses. Based on
    information known by management, it does not believe that
    additional claim losses resulting from Hurricane Katrina will
    have a material adverse impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

Argentina   

The Argentinean economic, regulatory and legal environment,
    including interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators
    and courts, is uncertain. Potential legal or governmental
    actions related to pension reform, fiduciary responsibilities,
    performance guarantees and tax rulings could adversely affect
    the results of the Company. Upon acquisition of Citigroup s
    insurance operations in Argentina, the Company established
    insurance liabilities, most significantly death and disability
    policy liabilities, based upon its interpretation of Argentinean
    law at the time and the Company s best estimate of its
    obligations under such law. In 2006, a decree was issued by the
    Argentine Government regarding the taxability of
    pesification-related gains resulting in the reduction of certain
    tax liabilities. In 2007, pension reform legislation in
    Argentina was enacted which changed the Company s
    obligations and resulted in the elimination of the death and
    disability liabilities and the establishment of a liability for
    servicing obligations.

Commitments  

Leases   

In accordance with industry practice, certain of the
    Company s income from lease agreements with retail tenants
    are contingent upon the level of the tenants  sales
    revenues. Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into
    various lease and sublease agreements for office space, data
    processing and other equipment. Future minimum rental and
    sublease income, and minimum gross rental payments relating to
    these lease agreements are as follows:

F-90

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded
    commitments were $5.3 billion and $3.0 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company
    anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships
    over the next five years.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company commits to lend funds under mortgage loan
    commitments. The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $4.0 billion at both December 31, 2007 and 2006.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $1.2 billion and
    $1.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Other
    Commitments   

In December 2005, RGA repurchased 1.6 million shares of its
    outstanding common stock at an aggregate price of
    $76 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement
    with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to RGA from
    third parties and purchased the shares in the open market over
    the subsequent few months to return to the lenders. RGA would
    either pay or receive an amount based on the actual amount paid
    by the bank to purchase the shares. These repurchases resulted
    in an increase in the Company s ownership percentage of RGA
    to approximately 53% at December 31, 2005 from
    approximately 52% at December 31, 2004. In February 2006,
    the final purchase price was determined, resulting in a cash
    settlement substantially equal to the aggregate cost. RGA
    recorded the initial repurchase of shares as treasury stock and
    recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the cost of the
    treasury stock. At December 31, 2007, the Company s
    ownership was approximately 52% of RGA.

Guarantees  

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities, and other
    indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other
    things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
    provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of
    business, the Company provides indemnifications to
    counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the
    foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as
    third party lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to
    time limitations that vary in duration, including contractual
    limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as
    applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
    potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is
    subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than
    $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum
    of $2.3 billion, while in other cases such limitations are
    not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations
    are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe
    that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount
    that could become due under these guarantees in the future.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s interests. Since
    these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these indemnities in the future.

F-91

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these guarantees in the future.

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
    recorded a $1 million liability with respect to a guarantee
    previously provided to MLII, a former subsidiary. The
    Company s recorded liabilities at December 31, 2007
    and 2006 for indemnities, guarantees and commitments were
    $6 million and $5 million, respectively.

In connection with synthetically created investment
    transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations
    that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in
    exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit
    event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Company s
    maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of the referenced
    credits becomes worthless, was $1.7 billion at
    December 31, 2007. The credit default swaps expire at
    various times during the next ten years.

17.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans
    covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula.
    The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of
    credited service and either final average or career average
    earnings. The cash balance formula utilizes hypothetical or
    notional accounts which credit participants with benefits equal
    to a percentage of eligible pay as well as earnings credits,
    determined annually based upon the average annual rate of
    interest on
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. As of
    December 31, 2007, virtually all of the Subsidiaries 
    obligations have been calculated using the traditional formula.
    The non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits,
    in excess of amounts permitted by governmental agencies, to
    certain executive level employees.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

In connection with the acquisition of Travelers, the employees
    of Travelers and any other Citigroup affiliate in the United
    States who became employees of certain Subsidiaries in
    connection with that acquisition (including those who remained
    employees of companies acquired in that acquisition) will be
    credited with service recognized by Citigroup for purposes of
    determining eligibility and vesting under the Plan with respect
    to benefits earned under the Plan subsequent to the closing date
    of the acquisition. Neither the Holding Company nor its
    subsidiaries assumed an obligation for benefits earned under
    defined benefit plans of Citigroup or Travelers prior to the
    acquisition.

As described more fully in Note 1, effective
    December 31, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 158. The
    adoption of SFAS 158 required the recognition of the funded
    status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans
    and eliminated the additional minimum pension liability
    provision of SFAS 87. The Company s additional minimum
    pension liability was $78 million, and the intangible asset
    was $12 million, at December 31, 2005. The excess of
    the additional minimum pension liability over the intangible
    asset of $66 million, $41 million net of income tax,
    was recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive
    income. At December 31, 2006, immediately prior to adopting
    SFAS 158, the Company s additional minimum pension
    liability was $92 million. The additional minimum pension
    liability of $59 million, net of income tax of
    $33 million, was

F-92

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

recorded as a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive
    income. The change in the additional minimum pension liability
    of $18 million, net of income tax, was reflected as a
    component of comprehensive income for the year ended
    December 31, 2006. Upon adoption of SFAS 158, the
    Company eliminated the additional minimum pension liability and
    recognized as an adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
    income, net of income tax, those amounts of actuarial gains and
    losses, prior service costs and credits, and the remaining net
    transition asset or obligation that had not yet been included in
    net periodic benefit cost at the date of adoption.

The following table summarizes the adjustments to the
    December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as a result of
    recognizing the funded status of the defined benefit plans:

A December 31 measurement date is used for all of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans.

F-93

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Obligations,
    Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs   

F-94

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair
    value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $5,348 million and $5,505 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit
    obligation in excess of plan assets is as follows:

Information for pension and other postretirement plans with a
    projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is as
    follows:

F-95

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The components of net periodic benefit cost and other changes in
    plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other
    comprehensive income were as follows:

Included within other comprehensive income are other changes in
    plan assets and benefit obligations associated with pension
    benefits of ($477) million and other postretirement
    benefits of ($404) million for an aggregate reduction in
    other comprehensive income of ($881) million before income
    tax and $563 million, net of income tax and minority
    interest.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for
    the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost over the
    next year are both $14 million.

The estimated net actuarial gains and prior service credit for
    the defined benefit other postretirement plans that will be
    amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net
    periodic benefit cost over the next year are less than
    $1 million and $37 million, respectively.

In 2004, the Company adopted the guidance in
     FSP 106-2, 
     Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
    Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
    2003
      ( FSP 106-2 ), 
    to account for future subsidies to be received under the
    Prescription Drug Act. The Company began receiving these
    subsidies

F-96

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

during 2006. A summary of the reduction to the APBO and related
    reduction to the components of net periodic other postretirement
    benefit cost is as follows:

The Company received subsidies of $10 million and
    $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.

Assumptions  

Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as
    follows:

Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit cost were
    as follows:

The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield,
    measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio
    constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the
    valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash
    flows to pay the aggregate projected benefit obligation when due.

F-97

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on
    anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which
    the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages.
    Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical
    returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the
    Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on the performance of
    the markets. While the precise expected return derived using
    this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the
    Subsidiaries  policy is to hold this long-term assumption
    constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from
    the derived rate.

The weighted average expected return on plan assets for use in
    that plan s valuation in 2008 is currently anticipated to
    be 8.25% for pension benefits and postretirement medical
    benefits and 6.25% for postretirement life benefits.

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the
    APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

One Percent 

One Percent 

Increase 

Decrease 

(In millions) 

Effect on total of service and interest cost components

$

7

$

(6

)

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$

63

$

(62

)

Plan
    Assets   

The Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance
    contracts supporting approximately 98% of all pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans assets.

The account values of the group annuity and life insurance
    contracts issued by the Subsidiaries and held as assets of the
    pension and other postretirement benefit plans were
    $7,565 million and $7,321 million as of
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The majority of
    such account values are held in separate accounts established by
    the Subsidiaries. Total revenue from these contracts recognized
    in the consolidated statements of income was $28 million,
    $29 million and $28 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
    includes policy charges, net investment income from investments
    backing the contracts and administrative fees. Total investment
    income, including realized and unrealized gains and losses,
    credited to the account balances were $603 million,
    $818 million and $460 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The terms
    of these contracts are consistent in all material respects with
    those the Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are
    similarly situated.

F-98

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The weighted-average allocations of pension plan and other
    postretirement benefit plan assets were as follows:

The weighted-average target allocations of pension plan and
    other postretirement benefit plan assets for 2008 are as follows:

Target allocations of assets are determined with the objective
    of maximizing returns and minimizing volatility of net assets
    through adequate asset diversification. Adjustments are made to
    target allocations based on an assessment of the impact of
    economic factors and market conditions.

Cash
    Flows   

It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to
    the qualified pension plans to comply with minimum funding
    requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
    1974, as amended. In accordance with such practice, no
    contributions were required for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 or 2006. No contributions will be
    required for 2008. The Subsidiaries did not make discretionary
    contributions to the qualified pension plans during the year
    ended December 31, 2007 and made contributions of
    $350 million during the year ended December 31, 2006.
    The Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary
    contributions of $150 million in 2008.

Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are
    funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as they become
    due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled
    $50 million and $38 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These payments
    are expected to be at approximately the same level in 2008.

Other postretirement benefits represent a non-vested,
    non-guaranteed obligation of the Subsidiaries and current
    regulations do not require specific funding levels for these
    benefits. While the Subsidiaries have partially funded such
    plans in advance, it has been the Subsidiaries  practice to
    primarily use their general assets, net of participant s
    contributions, to pay postretirement medical claims as they come
    due in lieu of utilizing plan assets. Total payments equaled
    $174 million and $152 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The Subsidiaries  expect to make contributions of
    $116 million, net of participant s contributions,
    towards the other postretirement plan obligations in 2008. As
    noted previously, the Subsidiaries expect to receive subsidies
    under the Prescription Drug Act to partially offset such
    payments.

F-99

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Gross benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect
    expected future service where appropriate, and gross subsidies
    to be received under the Prescription Drug Act are expected to
    be as follows:

Savings
    and Investment Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor savings and investment plans for
    substantially all employees under which a portion of employee
    contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed
    $79 million, $82 million and $78 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Preferred
    Stock   

Issuances  

In September 1999, the Holding Company adopted a stockholder
    rights plan (the  rights plan ) under which each
    outstanding share of common stock issued between April 4,
    2000 and the distribution date (as defined in the rights plan)
    will be coupled with a stockholder right. Each right will
    entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Each one
    one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
    Preferred Stock will have economic and voting terms equivalent
    to one share of common stock. Until it is exercised, the right
    itself will not entitle the holder thereof to any rights as a
    stockholder, including the right to receive dividends or to vote
    at stockholder meetings.

Stockholder rights are not exercisable until the distribution
    date, and will expire at the close of business on April 4,
    2010, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Holding
    Company. The rights plan is designed to protect stockholders in
    the event of unsolicited offers to acquire the Holding Company
    and other coercive takeover tactics.

In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on
    July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2, the
    Holding Company issued preferred shares as follows:

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 24 million shares
    of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A
    (the  Series A preferred shares ) with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $600 million.

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 60 million shares
    of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the
     Series B preferred shares ), with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion.

The Series A and Series B preferred shares (the
     Preferred Shares ) rank senior to the common stock
    with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on
    the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the
    Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments
    only when, as and if declared by the Holding Company s
    Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board.
    If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares,
    they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of
    the greater of: (i) 1.00% above

F-100

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

3-month 
    LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or
    (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B
    preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an
    annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that
    dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment
    on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to
    accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the
    dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to
    pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not
    dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends
    may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Company s
    common stock   or any other securities ranking junior
    to the Preferred Shares   unless the full dividends
    for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred
    Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or
    provided for.

The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on
    the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital
    adequacy, net income and shareholders  equity levels. In
    addition, under Federal Reserve Board policy, the Holding
    Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does not earn
    sufficient operating income.

The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain
    circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an
    equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or
    not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the
    holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with
    respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding
    Company.

The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory
    redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or
    similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not
    prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date,
    subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be
    redeemable at the Holding Company s option in whole or in
    part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus
    declared and unpaid dividends.

In connection with the offering of the Preferred Shares, the
    Holding Company incurred $56.8 million of issuance costs
    which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
    capital.

Dividends  

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Preferred Shares is as follows:

See Note 25 for further information.

F-101

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Common
    Stock   

Repurchases  

In October 2004, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program. In
    February 2007, the Company s Board of Directors authorized
    an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program.
    In September 2007, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase
    program which began after the completion of the $1 billion
    common stock repurchase program authorized in February 2007. In
    January 2008, the Company s Board of Directors authorized
    an additional $1 billion common stock repurchase program,
    which began after the completion of the September 2007 program.
    (See Note 25). Under these authorizations, the Company may
    purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust,
    in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set
    trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions.

The Company has entered into the following accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreements:

In December 2004, the Company repurchased 7.3 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $300 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to
    the Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in
    the open market to return to such third parties. In April 2005,
    the Company received a cash adjustment of $7 million based
    on the actual amount paid by the bank to purchase the common
    stock, for a final purchase price of $293 million. The
    Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as treasury
    stock and recorded the amount received as an adjustment to the
    cost of the treasury stock.

In December 2006, the Company repurchased 4.0 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $232 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Company from third parties and purchased the common
    stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In
    February 2007, the Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $8 million for a final purchase price of $240 million.
    The Company recorded the shares initially repurchased as
    treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an adjustment to
    the cost of the treasury stock.

In March 2007, the Company repurchased 11.9 million shares
    of its outstanding common stock at an aggregate cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the common stock
    sold to the Company from third parties and purchased common
    stock in the open market to return to such third parties. In
    June 2007, the Company paid a cash adjustment of
    $17 million for a final purchase price of
    $767 million. The Company recorded the shares initially
    repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount paid as an
    adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In November 2007, the Company repurchased 11.6 million
    shares of its outstanding common stock at an initial cost of
    $750 million under an accelerated common stock repurchase
    agreement with a major bank. The bank borrowed the stock sold to
    the Company from third parties and purchased the common stock in
    the open market to return to such third parties. Also, in
    November 2007, the Company received a cash adjustment of
    $19 million based on the trading price of the common stock
    during the repurchase period, for a final purchase price of
    $731 million. The Company recorded the shares initially
    repurchased as treasury stock and recorded the amount received
    as an adjustment to the cost of the treasury stock.

In December 2007, the Company entered into an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the terms of
    the agreement, the Company paid the bank $450 million in
    cash in January 2008 in exchange for 6.6 million shares of
    the Company s outstanding common stock that the bank
    borrowed from third parties. Also, in January 2008, the bank
    delivered 1.1 million additional shares of the
    Company s common stock to the Company resulting in a total
    of 7.7 million shares being repurchased under the
    agreement. At December 31, 2007, the Company recorded the
    obligation to pay $450 million to the bank as a

F-102

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

reduction of additional paid-in capital. Upon settlement with
    the bank, the Company increased additional paid-in capital and
    reduced treasury stock.

See Note 25 for further information with respect to an
    accelerated common stock repurchase agreement executed
    subsequent to December 31, 2007.

The Company also repurchased 3.1 million and
    4.6 million shares through open market purchases for
    $200 million and $268 million, respectively, during
    the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Cumulatively, the Company repurchased 26.6 million and
    8.6 million shares of its common stock for
    $1.7 billion and $500 million during the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company did
    not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the year
    ended December 31, 2005. During the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 3.9 million,
    3.1 million and 25.0 million shares of common stock
    were issued from treasury stock for $172 million,
    $102 million and $819 million, respectively, of which
    22.4 million shares with a market value of $1 billion
    were issued in connection with the acquisition of Travelers on
    July 1, 2005. See Note 2.

At December 31, 2006 the Company had $216 million
    remaining on the October 2004 common stock repurchase program
    which was subsequently reduced by $8 million to
    $208 million after the February 2007 cash adjustment to the
    December 2006 accelerated common stock repurchase agreement. The
    February 2007 stock repurchase program authorization was fully
    utilized during 2007. At December 31, 2007,
    $511 million remained on the Company s September 2007
    common stock repurchase program. The $511 million remaining
    on the September 2007 common stock repurchase program was
    reduced by $450 million to $61 million upon settlement
    of the accelerated stock repurchase agreement executed during
    December 2007 but for which no settlement occurred until January
    2008. Subsequent to the January 2008 authorization, the amount
    remaining under these repurchase programs was
    $1,061 million. After execution of the accelerated stock
    repurchase agreement in February 2008 and certain open market
    purchases as more fully described in Note 25, the
    Company s remaining authorization is $261 million.

Future common stock repurchases will be dependent upon several
    factors, including the Company s capital position, its
    financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions
    and the price of the Company s common stock.

Stock
    Purchase Contracts  

See Note 13 regarding stock purchase contracts issued by
    the Company on June 21, 2005 in connection with the
    issuance of the common equity units.

Dividends  

The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates,
    as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    common stock:

F-103

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans   

Overview  

As described more fully in Note 1, effective
    January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS 123(r),
    using the modified prospective transition method. The adoption
    of SFAS 123(r) did not have a significant impact on the
    Company s financial position or results of operations.

Description
    of Plans  

The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the
     Stock Incentive Plan ), authorized the granting of
    awards in the form of options to buy shares of the
    Company s common stock ( Stock Options ) that
    either qualify as incentive Stock Options under
    Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code or are
    non-qualified. The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan,
    as amended (the  Directors Stock Plan ), authorized
    the granting of awards in the form of the Company s common
    stock, non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of the
    foregoing to outside Directors of the Company. Under the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, as
    amended (the  2005 Stock Plan ), awards granted may be
    in the form of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights,
    Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares
    or Performance Share Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based
    Awards (each as defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). Under the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation
    Plan (the  2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards
    granted may be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan). The Stock Incentive Plan,
    Directors Stock Plan, 2005 Stock Plan, the 2005 Directors
    Stock Plan and the LTPCP, as described below, are hereinafter
    collectively referred to as the  Incentive Plans. 

The aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan and the LTPCP is 68,000,000, plus those shares
    available but not utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan and
    those shares utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan that are
    recovered due to forfeiture of Stock Options. Additional shares
    carried forward from the Stock Incentive Plan and available for
    issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan were 12,506,003 as of
    December 31, 2007. There were no shares carried forward
    from the Directors Stock Plan. Each share issued under the 2005
    Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock
    Appreciation Right reduces the number of shares remaining for
    issuance under that plan by one, and each share issued under the
    2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock
    Options or Stock Appreciation Rights reduces the number of
    shares remaining for issuance under that plan by
    1.179 shares. The number of shares reserved for issuance
    under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are 2,000,000. As of
    December 31, 2007, the aggregate number of shares remaining
    available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan and the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan were 60,862,366 and 1,918,170,
    respectively.

Stock Option exercises and other stock-based awards to employees
    settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares
    held in treasury by the Company. Under the current authorized
    share repurchase program, as described previously, sufficient
    treasury shares exist to satisfy foreseeable obligations under
    the Incentive Plans.

Compensation expense related to awards under the Incentive Plans
    is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest,
    which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures
    over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant.
    Unless a material deviation from the assumed rate is observed
    during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment
    necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is
    recognized in the period the award becomes payable or
    exercisable. Compensation expense of $145 million,
    $144 million and $120 million, and income tax benefits
    of $51 million, $50 million and $42 million,
    related to the Incentive Plans was recognized for the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
    Compensation expense is principally related to the issuance of
    Stock Options, Performance Shares and LTPCP arrangements.

As described in Note 1, the Company changed its policy
    prospectively for recognizing expense for stock-based awards to
    retirement eligible employees. Had the Company continued to
    recognize expense over the stated requisite service period,
    compensation expense related to the Incentive Plans would have
    been $118 million, $116 million

F-104

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and $120 million, rather than $145 million,
    $144 million and $120 million, for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Had the
    Company applied the policy of recognizing expense related to
    stock-based compensation over the shorter of the requisite
    service period or the period to attainment of retirement
    eligibility for awards granted prior to January 1, 2006,
    pro forma compensation expense would have been
    $118 million, $120 million and $122 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

Stock
    Options  

All Stock Options granted had an exercise price equal to the
    closing price of the Company s common stock as reported on
    the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant, and have a
    maximum term of ten years. Certain Stock Options granted under
    the Stock Incentive Plan and the 2005 Stock Plan have or will
    become exercisable over a three year period commencing with the
    date of grant, while other Stock Options have or will become
    exercisable three years after the date of grant. Stock Options
    issued under the Directors Stock Plan were exercisable
    immediately. The date at which any Stock Option issued under the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan becomes exercisable would be
    determined at the time such Stock Option is granted.

A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year
    ended December 31, 2007 is presented below. The aggregate
    intrinsic value was computed using the closing share price on
    December 31, 2007 of $61.62 and December 29, 2006 of
    $59.01, as applicable.

Prior to January 1, 2005, the Black-Scholes model was used
    to determine the fair value of Stock Options granted and
    recognized in the financial statements or as reported in the pro
    forma disclosure which follows. The fair value of Stock Options
    issued on or after January 1, 2005 was estimated on the
    date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The Company made
    this change because lattice models produce more accurate option
    values due to the ability to incorporate assumptions about
    grantee exercise behavior resulting from changes in the price of
    the underlying shares. In addition, lattice models allow for
    changes in critical assumptions over the life of the option in
    comparison to closed-form models like Black-Scholes, which
    require single-value assumptions at the time of grant.

The Company used daily historical volatility since the inception
    of trading when calculating Stock Option values using the
    Black-Scholes model. In conjunction with the change to the
    binomial lattice model, the Company began estimating expected
    future volatility based upon an analysis of historical prices of
    the Holding Company s common stock and call options on that
    common stock traded on the open market. The Company uses a
    weighted-average of the implied volatility for publicly traded
    call options with the longest remaining maturity nearest to the
    money as of each valuation date and the historical volatility,
    calculated using monthly closing prices of the Holding

F-105

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Company s common stock. The Company chose a monthly
    measurement interval for historical volatility as it believes
    this better depicts the nature of employee option exercise
    decisions being based on longer-term trends in the price of the
    underlying shares rather than on daily price movements.

The risk-free rate is based on observed interest rates for
    instruments with maturities similar to the expected term of the
    Stock Options. Whereas the Black-Scholes model requires a single
    spot rate for instruments with a term matching the expected life
    of the option at the valuation date, the binomial lattice model
    allows for the use of different rates for each year over the
    contractual term of the option. The table below presents the
    full range of imputed forward rates for U.S. Treasury
    Strips that was used in the binomial lattice model over the
    contractual term of all Stock Options granted in the period.

Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend
    distributions compared to the price of the underlying common
    stock as of the valuation date and held constant over the life
    of the Stock Option.

Use of the Black-Scholes model requires an input of the expected
    life of the Stock Options, or the average number of years before
    Stock Options will be exercised or expired. The Company
    estimated expected life using the historical average years to
    exercise or cancellation and average remaining years outstanding
    for vested Stock Options. Alternatively, the binomial model used
    by the Company incorporates the contractual term of the Stock
    Options and then considers expected exercise behavior and a
    post-vesting termination rate, or the rate at which vested
    options are exercised or expire prematurely due to termination
    of employment, to derive an expected life. The post-vesting
    termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise
    and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans. Exercise
    behavior in the binomial lattice model used by the Company is
    expressed using an exercise multiple, which reflects the ratio
    of exercise price to the strike price of Stock Options granted
    at which holders of the Stock Options are expected to exercise.
    The exercise multiple is derived from actual historical exercise
    activity.

The following weighted average assumptions, with the exception
    of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, were used to
    determine the fair value of Stock Options issued during the:

Compensation expense related to Stock Option awards expected to
    vest and granted prior to January 1, 2006 is recognized
    ratably over the requisite service period, which equals the
    vesting term. Compensation expense related to Stock Option
    awards expected to vest and granted on or after January 1,
    2006 is recognized ratably over the requisite service period or
    the period to retirement eligibility, if shorter. Compensation
    expense of $55 million, $56 million and
    $50 million related to Stock Options was recognized for the
    years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

F-106

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Had compensation expense for grants awarded prior to
    January 1, 2003 been determined based on the fair value at
    the date of grant rather than the intrinsic value method, the
    Company s earnings and earnings per common share amounts
    would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts for
    the following:

Year Ended 

December 31, 2005 

(In millions, 

except per share data) 

Net income available to common shareholders

$

4,651

Add: Stock option-based employee compensation expense included
    in reported net income, net of income tax

$

33

Deduct: Total stock option-based employee compensation
    determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of
    income tax

$

(35

)

Pro forma net income available to common shareholders

$

4,649

Basic earnings per common share 

As reported

$

6.21

Pro forma

$

6.21

Diluted earnings per common share 

As reported

$

6.16

Pro forma

$

6.15

As of December 31, 2007, there were $41 million of
    total unrecognized compensation costs related to Stock Options.
    It is expected that these costs will be recognized over a
    weighted average period of 1.70 years.

The following is a summary of Stock Option exercise activity for
    the:

Performance
    Shares  

Beginning in 2005, certain members of management were awarded
    Performance Shares under (and as defined in) the 2005 Stock
    Plan. Participants are awarded an initial target number of
    Performance Shares with the final number of Performance Shares
    payable being determined by the product of the initial target
    multiplied by a factor of 0.0 to 2.0. The factor applied is
    based on measurements of the Company s performance with
    respect to: (i) the change in annual net operating earnings
    per share, as defined; and (ii) the proportionate total
    shareholder return, as defined, with reference to the three-year
    performance period relative to other companies in the S P
    Insurance Index with reference to the same three-year period.
    Performance Share awards will normally vest in their entirety at
    the end of the three-year performance period (subject to certain
    contingencies) and will be payable entirely in shares of the
    Company s common stock.

F-107

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following is a summary of Performance Share activity for the
    year ended December 31, 2007:

Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial
    target awards and do not reflect potential increases or
    decreases resulting from the final performance factor to be
    determined at the end of the respective performance period. As
    of December 31, 2007, the three year performance period for
    the 2005 Performance Share grants was completed. Included in the
    immediately preceding table are 965,525 outstanding Performance
    Shares to which the final performance factor will be applied.
    The calculation of the performance factor is expected to be
    finalized during the second quarter of 2008 after all data
    necessary to perform the calculation is publicly available.

Performance Share awards are accounted for as equity awards but
    are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends
    paid on the Holding Company s common stock during the
    performance period. Accordingly, the fair value of Performance
    Shares is based upon the closing price of the Holding
    Company s common stock on the date of grant, reduced by the
    present value of estimated dividends to be paid on that stock
    during the performance period.

Compensation expense related to initial Performance Shares
    granted prior to January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is
    recognized ratably during the performance period. Compensation
    expense related to initial Performance Shares granted on or
    after January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is recognized
    ratably over the performance period or the period to retirement
    eligibility, if shorter. Performance Shares expected to vest and
    the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the
    performance factor most likely to be achieved, as estimated by
    management, at the end of the performance period. Compensation
    expense of $90 million, $74 million and
    $24 million, related to Performance Shares was recognized
    for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively.

As of December 31, 2007, there were $57 million of
    total unrecognized compensation costs related to Performance
    Share awards. It is expected that these costs will be recognized
    over a weighted average period of 1.72 years.

Long-Term
    Performance Compensation Plan  

Prior to January 1, 2005, the Company granted stock-based
    compensation to certain members of management under the LTPCP.
    Each participant was assigned a target compensation amount (an
     Opportunity Award ) at the inception of the
    performance period with the final compensation amount determined
    based on the total shareholder return on the Company s
    common stock over the three-year performance period, subject to
    limited further adjustment approved by the Company s Board
    of Directors. Payments on the Opportunity Awards were normally
    payable in their entirety (subject to certain contingencies) at
    the end of the three-year performance period, and were paid in
    whole or in part with shares of the Company s common stock,
    as approved by the Company s Board of Directors. There were
    no new grants under the LTPCP during the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.

A portion of each Opportunity Award under the LTPCP was settled
    in shares of the Holding Company s common stock while the
    remainder was settled in cash. The portion of the Opportunity
    Award settled in shares of the Holding Company s common
    stock was accounted for as an equity award with the fair value
    of the award

F-108

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

determined based upon the closing price of the Holding
    Company s common stock on the date of grant. The
    compensation expense associated with the equity award, based
    upon the grant date fair value, was recognized into expense
    ratably over the respective three-year performance period. The
    portion of the Opportunity Award settled in cash was accounted
    for as a liability and was remeasured using the closing price of
    the Holding Company s common stock on the final day of each
    subsequent reporting period during the three-year performance
    period.

The final LTPCP performance period concluded during the six
    months ended June 30, 2007. Final Opportunity Awards in the
    amount of 618,375 shares of the Company s common stock
    and $16 million in cash were paid on April 18, 2007.
    No significant compensation expense related to LTPCP was
    recognized during the year ended December 31, 2007.
    Compensation expense of $14 million and $46 million,
    related to LTPCP Opportunity Awards was recognized for the years
    ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

Statutory
    Equity and Income   

Each insurance company s state of domicile imposes minimum
    risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements that were
    developed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ). The formulas for determining the amount of
    RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to
    financial balances or various levels of activity based on the
    perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by
    a ratio of total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to
    authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC.
    Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified
    within certain levels, each of which requires specified
    corrective action. Each of the Holding Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC
    requirements for all periods presented herein.

The NAIC adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( Codification ) in 2001. Codification was
    intended to standardize regulatory accounting and reporting to
    state insurance departments. However, statutory accounting
    principles continue to be established by individual state laws
    and permitted practices. Modifications by the various state
    insurance departments may impact the effect of Codification on
    the statutory capital and surplus of MLIC and the Holding
    Company s other insurance subsidiaries.

Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by
    charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred,
    establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different
    actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus
    instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.

In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory
    accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus. The
    most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net
    deferred income tax assets resulting from temporary differences
    between statutory accounting principles basis and tax basis not
    expected to reverse and become recoverable within a year.
    Further, statutory accounting principles do not give recognition
    to purchase accounting adjustments.

Statutory net income of MLIC, a New York domiciled insurer, was
    $2.1 billion, $1.0 billion and $2.2 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Department, was $13.0 billion and $9.2 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Statutory net income of MICC, a Connecticut domiciled insurer,
    was $1.1 billion and $856 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and
    $470 million from the date of purchase, for the
    six month period ended December 31, 2005. Statutory
    capital and surplus, as filed with the Connecticut Insurance
    Department, was $4.2 billion and $4.1 billion at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Due to the merger
    of MetLife Life and Annuity Company of Connecticut with MICC,
    the 2006 statutory net income balance was adjusted.

Statutory net income of MPC, a Rhode Island domiciled insurer,
    was $400 million, $385 million and $289 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as

F-109

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

filed with the Insurance Department of Rhode Island, was
    $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion at December 31,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

Statutory net income of MTL, a Delaware domiciled insurer, was
    $103 million, $2.8 billion and $353 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Delaware Insurance Department was $1.1 billion and
    $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Dividend
    Restrictions   

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2008 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified
    date during 2008, some or all of such dividends may require
    regulatory approval. 

(2)  

Includes amounts paid including those requiring regulatory
    approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

Includes a return of capital of $259 million. 

(5)  

Includes a return of capital of $404 million as approved by
    the applicable insurance department, of which $350 million
    was paid to the Holding Company. 

Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without
    prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount
    of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the
    lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of
    the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or
    (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital
    gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the
    Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only
    if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend
    and the amount thereof with the Superintendent and the
    Superintendent does not disapprove the distribution within
    30 days of its filing. Under New York State Insurance Law,
    the Superintendent has broad discretion in determining whether
    the financial condition of a stock life insurance company would
    support the payment of such dividends to its shareholders. The
    New York State Department of Insurance (the
     Department ) has established informal guidelines for
    such determinations. The guidelines, among other things, focus
    on the insurer s overall financial condition and
    profitability under statutory accounting practices.

Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay shareholder
    dividends to its parent as long as the amount of such dividends,
    when aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding
    12 months, does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of
    its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain
    from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year.
    MICC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend in excess of the
    greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of its
    declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the
    Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance ( Commissioner )
    and the Commissioner does not disapprove the payment within
    30 days after notice. In addition, any dividend that
    exceeds earned surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of

F-110

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or
    unrealized profits on investments) as of the last filed annual
    statutory statement requires insurance regulatory approval.
    Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Commissioner has
    broad discretion in determining whether the financial condition
    of a stock life insurance company would support the payment of
    such dividends to its shareholders. The Connecticut State
    Insurance Law requires prior approval for any dividends for a
    period of two years following a change in control. As a result
    of the acquisition of MICC by the Holding Company on
    July 1, 2005, under Connecticut State Insurance Law, all
    dividend payments by MICC through June 30, 2007 required
    prior approval of the Commissioner.

Under Delaware State Insurance Law, Metropolitan Tower Life
    Insurance Company ( MTL ) is permitted, without prior
    insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder dividend to
    the Holding Company as long as the amount of the dividend when
    aggregated with all other dividends in the preceding
    12 months does not exceed the greater of: (i) 10% of
    its surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) its statutory net gain
    from operations for the immediately preceding calendar year
    (excluding realized capital gains). MTL will be permitted to pay
    a cash dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the greater
    of such two amounts only if it files notice of the declaration
    of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Delaware
    Commissioner of Insurance (the  Delaware
    Commissioner ) and the Delaware Commissioner does not
    disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing.
    In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined
    as unassigned funds) as of the last filed annual statutory
    statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware
    State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad
    discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a
    stock life insurance company would support the payment of such
    dividends to its shareholders.

Under Rhode Island State Insurance Law, MPC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a
    stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the
    aggregate amount of all such dividends in any twelve-month
    period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its
    surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including
    realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar
    year. MPC will be permitted to pay a cash dividend to the
    Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only
    if it files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend
    and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island Commissioner of
    Insurance (the  Rhode Island Commissioner ) and the
    Rhode Island Commissioner does not disapprove the distribution
    within 30 days of its filing. Under Rhode Island State
    Insurance Code, the Rhode Island Commissioner has broad
    discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a
    stock property and casualty insurance company would support the
    payment of such dividends to its shareholders. Because
    MPC s net income for the year ended December 31, 2007
    excluding net realized capital gains and dividends paid, was
    negative, MPC cannot pay any dividends in 2008 without
    regulatory approval.

F-111

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The following table sets forth the reclassification adjustments
    required for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
    2005 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as
    part of net income for the current year that have been reported
    as a part of other comprehensive income (loss) in the current or
    prior year:

F-112

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information on other expenses is as follows:

F-113

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

20.    

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The following table presents the weighted average shares used in
    calculating basic earnings per common share and those used in
    calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income
    category presented below:

(1)  

See Note 13 for a description of the Company s common
    equity units. 

F-114

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

21.    

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2007 and 2006
    are summarized in the table below:

22.    

Business
    Segment Information  

The Company is a leading provider of insurance and other
    financial services with operations throughout the United States
    and the regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. The
    Company s business is divided into five operating segments:
    Institutional, Individual, Auto   Home, International
    and Reinsurance, as well as Corporate   Other. These
    segments are managed separately because they either provide
    different products and services, require different strategies or
    have different technology requirements.

Institutional offers a broad range of group insurance and
    retirement   savings products and services, including
    group life insurance, non-medical health insurance, such as
    short and long-term disability, long-term care, and dental
    insurance, and other insurance products and services. Individual
    offers a wide variety of protection and asset accumulation
    products, including life insurance, annuities and mutual funds.
    Auto   Home provides personal lines property and
    casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile,
    homeowners and personal excess liability insurance.
    International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, annuities and retirement   savings products
    to both individuals and groups. Through the Company s
    majority-owned subsidiary, RGA, the

F-115

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Reinsurance segment provides reinsurance of life and annuity
    policies in North America and various international markets.
    Additionally, reinsurance of critical illness policies is
    provided in select international markets.

Corporate   Other contains the excess capital not
    allocated to the business segments, various
     start-up 
    entities, MetLife Bank and run-off entities, as well as interest
    expense related to the majority of the Company s
    outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings and income tax audit issues. Corporate  
    Other also includes the elimination of all intersegment amounts,
    which generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear
    interest rates commensurate with related borrowings, as well as
    intersegment transactions. Additionally, the Company s
    asset management business, including amounts reported as
    discontinued operations, is included in the results of
    operations for Corporate   Other. See Note 23 for
    disclosures regarding discontinued operations, including real
    estate.

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in MetLife s businesses. As a part of the
    economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is
    credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity.

F-116

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information
    with respect to the Company s segments, as well as
    Corporate   Other, for the years ended
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The accounting policies
    of the segments are the same as those of the Company, except for
    the method of capital allocation and the accounting for gains
    (losses) from intercompany sales, which are eliminated in
    consolidation. The Company allocates equity to each segment
    based upon the economic capital model that allows the Company to
    effectively manage its capital. The Company evaluates the
    performance of each segment based upon net income excluding net
    investment gains (losses), net of income tax, adjustments
    related to net investment gains (losses), net of income tax, the
    impact from the cumulative effect of changes in accounting, net
    of income tax and discontinued operations, other than
    discontinued real estate, net of income tax, less preferred
    stock dividends. The Company allocates certain non-recurring
    items, such as expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings, to Corporate   Other.

F-117

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-118

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net investment income and net investment gains (losses) are
    based upon the actual results of each segment s
    specifically identifiable asset portfolio adjusted for allocated
    equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based
    upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs;
    (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee
    compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost
    estimates included in the Company s product pricing.

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of
    consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31,
    2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenues from U.S. operations were
    $45.4 billion, $41.9 billion and $39.5 billion
    for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, which represented 86%, 87% and 89%, respectively,
    of consolidated revenues.

23.    

Discontinued
    Operations  

Real
    Estate   

The Company actively manages its real estate portfolio with the
    objective of maximizing earnings through selective acquisitions
    and dispositions. Income related to real estate classified as
    held-for-sale or sold is presented in discontinued operations.
    These assets are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or
    fair value less expected disposition costs.

F-119

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following information presents the components of income from
    discontinued real estate operations:

The carrying value of real estate related to discontinued
    operations was $172 million and $184 million at
    December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The following table presents the discontinued real estate
    operations by segment:

In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company sold its Peter Cooper
    Village and Stuyvesant Town properties located in Manhattan, New
    York for $5.4 billion. The Peter Cooper Village and
    Stuyvesant Town properties together make up the largest
    apartment complex in Manhattan, New York totaling over
    11,000 units, spread over 80 contiguous acres. The
    properties were owned by the Company s subsidiary, MTL. Net
    investment income on these properties was $73 million and
    $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and
    2005, respectively. The sale resulted in a gain of
    $3 billion, net of income tax.

In the second quarter of 2005, the Company sold its One Madison
    Avenue and 200 Park Avenue properties in Manhattan, New York for
    $918 million and $1.72 billion, respectively,
    resulting in gains, net of income tax, of $431 million and
    $762 million, respectively. Net investment income on One
    Madison Avenue and 200 Park Avenue was $13 million and
    $44 million, for the year ended December 31, 2005,
    respectively. In connection with the sale of the 200 Park Avenue
    property, the Company has retained rights to existing signage
    and is leasing space for associates in the property for
    20 years with optional renewal periods through 2205.

Operations   

On August 31, 2007, MetLife Australia completed the sale of
    its annuities and pension businesses to a third party for
    $25 million in cash consideration resulting in a gain upon
    disposal of $41 million, net of income tax, which

F-120

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

was adjusted in the fourth quarter of 2007 for additional
    transaction costs. The Company reclassified the assets and
    liabilities of the annuities and pension businesses within
    MetLife Australia, which is reported in the International
    segment, to assets and liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale
    and the operations of the business to discontinued operations
    for all periods presented. Included within the assets to be sold
    were certain fixed maturity securities in a loss position for
    which the Company recognized a net investment loss on a
    consolidated basis of $59 million, net of income tax, for
    the year ended December 31, 2007, because the Company no
    longer had the intent to hold such securities.

The following tables present the amounts related to the
    operations and financial position of MetLife Australia s
    annuities and pension businesses:

On September 29, 2005, the Company completed the sale of
    MetLife Indonesia to a third party, resulting in a gain upon
    disposal of $10 million, net of income tax. As a result of
    this sale, the Company recognized income from discontinued
    operations of $5 million, net of income tax, for the year
    ended December 31, 2005. The Company reclassified the
    operations of MetLife Indonesia into discontinued operations for
    all years presented.

F-121

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the amounts related to the
    operations of MetLife Indonesia that have been combined with the
    discontinued real estate operations in the consolidated
    statements of income:

Year Ended 

December 31, 

2005 

(In millions) 

Revenues

$

5

Expenses

10

Income from discontinued operations before provision for income
    tax

(5

)

Provision for income tax

Net investment gain, net of income tax

10

Income from discontinued operations, net of income tax

$

5

On January 31, 2005, the Company completed the sale of SSRM
    to a third party for $328 million in cash and stock. The
    Company reported the operations of SSRM in discontinued
    operations. As a result of the sale of SSRM, the Company
    recognized income from discontinued operations of
    $157 million, net of income tax, comprised of a realized
    gain of $165 million, net of income tax, and an operating
    expense related to a lease abandonment of $8 million, net
    of income tax. The Company s discontinued operations for
    the year ended December 31, 2005 included expenses of
    $6 million, net of income tax, related to the sale of SSRM.
    Under the terms of the sale agreement, MetLife will have an
    opportunity to receive additional payments based on, among other
    things, certain revenue retention and growth measures. The
    purchase price is also subject to reduction over five years,
    depending on retention of certain MetLife-related business. In
    the fourth quarter of 2007, the Company accrued a liability for
    $2 million, net of income tax, related to the termination
    of certain MetLife-related business. Also under the terms of
    such agreement, MetLife had the opportunity to receive
    additional consideration for the retention of certain customers
    for a specific period in 2005. Upon finalization of the
    computation, the Company received payments of $30 million,
    net of income tax, in the second quarter of 2006 and
    $12 million, net of income tax, in the fourth quarter of
    2005 due to the retention of these specific customer accounts.
    In the first quarter of 2007, the Company received a payment of
    $16 million, net of income tax, as a result of the revenue
    retention and growth measure provision in the sales agreement.
    In the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company eliminated
    $4 million of a liability that was previously recorded with
    respect to the indemnities provided in connection with the sale
    of SSRM, resulting in a benefit to the Company of
    $2 million, net of income tax. The Company believes that
    future payments relating to these indemnities are not probable.

The operations of SSRM include affiliated revenues of
    $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005,
    related to asset management services provided by SSRM to the
    Company that have not been eliminated from discontinued
    operations as these transactions continued after the sale of
    SSRM. The following table presents the amounts related to
    operations of SSRM that have been combined with the discontinued
    real estate operations in the consolidated statements of income:

F-122

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

24.    

Fair
    Value Information  

The estimated fair value of financial instruments have been
    determined by using available market information and the
    valuation methodologies described below. Considerable judgment
    is often required in interpreting market data to develop
    estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented
    herein may not necessarily be indicative of amounts that could
    be realized in a current market exchange. The use of different
    assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts. The implementation
    of SFAS 157 may impact the fair value assumptions and
    methodologies associated with the valuation of assets and
    liabilities. See also Note 1 regarding the adoption of
    SFAS 157.

Amounts related to the Company s financial instruments are
    as follows:

F-123

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

Fixed
    Maturity Securities, Trading Securities and Equity
    Securities   

The fair values of publicly held fixed maturity securities and
    publicly held equity securities are based on quoted market
    prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However,
    in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as
    for private fixed maturity securities, fair values are estimated
    using present value or valuation techniques. The determination
    of fair values is based on: (i) valuation methodologies;
    (ii) securities the Company deems to be comparable; and
    (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates based on available
    market information and judgments about financial instruments,
    including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future
    cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or
    counterparty. Factors considered in estimating fair value
    include; coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call
    provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry
    sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable
    securities.

Mortgage
    and Consumer Loans, Mortgage Loan Commitments and Commitments to
    Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans, and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

Fair values for mortgage and consumer loans are estimated by
    discounting expected future cash flows, using current interest
    rates for similar loans with similar credit risk. For mortgage
    loan commitments and commitments to fund bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans, and private corporate bond investments the
    estimated fair value is the net premium or discount of the
    commitments.

F-124

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Policy
    Loans   

The carrying values for policy loans approximate fair value.

Cash
    and Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments   

The carrying values for cash and cash equivalents and short-term
    investments approximate fair values due to the short-term
    maturities of these instruments.

Accrued
    Investment Income   

The carrying value for accrued investment income approximates
    fair value.

Policyholder
    Account Balances   

The fair value of policyholder account balances which have final
    contractual maturities are estimated by discounting expected
    future cash flows based upon interest rates currently being
    offered for similar contracts with maturities consistent with
    those remaining for the agreements being valued. The fair value
    of policyholder account balances without final contractual
    maturities are assumed to equal their current net surrender
    value.

Short-term
    and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing Arrangements, Junior
    Subordinated Debt Securities and Shares Subject to Mandatory
    Redemption   

The fair values of short-term and long-term debt, collateral
    financing arrangements, junior subordinated debt
    securities  ,   and shares subject to mandatory
    redemption are determined by discounting expected future cash
    flows using risk rates currently available for debt with similar
    terms and remaining maturities.

Payables
    for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other
    Transactions   

The carrying value for payables for collateral under securities
    loaned and other transactions approximate fair value.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The fair value of derivative financial instruments, including
    financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and foreign currency swaps, foreign currency forwards,
    caps, floors, and options are based upon quotations obtained
    from dealers or other reliable sources. See Note 4 for
    derivative fair value disclosures.

Dividends   

On February 19, 2008, the Holding Company s Board of
    Directors announced dividends of $0.3785745 per share, for a
    total of $9 million, on its Series A preferred shares,
    and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on
    its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Holding Company anticipates will be made on or about
    March 5, 2008, the earliest date permitted in accordance
    with the terms of the securities. Both dividends will be payable
    March 17, 2008 to shareholders of record as of
    February 29, 2008.

Acquisitions   

On February 1, 2008, the Company announced its completion
    of the acquisition of SafeGuard Health Enterprises, Inc.
    ( Safeguard ) for approximately $190 million.
    Safeguard is primarily involved in providing dental

F-125

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

and vision benefit plans, including health maintenance and
    preferred provider organization plan designs and administrative
    services.

On January 2, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition
    of Afore Actinver, S.A. de C.V. ( Actinver ) for
    approximately $125 million. Actinver manages retirement accounts
    for approximately 1.1 million individuals in Mexico.

Stock
    Repurchases   

On January 15, 2008, the Company s Board of Directors
    authorized a $1 billion common stock repurchase program,
    which began after the completion of an earlier $1 billion
    authorization that was announced in September 2007. See
    Note 18 for further information.

As previously discussed, in December 2007, the Company entered
    into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a
    major bank. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid
    the bank $450 million in cash in January 2008 in exchange
    for 6.6 million shares of the Company s outstanding
    common stock that the bank borrowed from third parties. Also, in
    January 2008, the bank delivered 1.1 million additional
    shares of the Company s common stock to the Company
    resulting in a total of 7.7 million shares being
    repurchased under the agreement. Upon settlement with the bank,
    the Company increased additional paid-in capital and reduced
    treasury stock. See Note 18 for further information.

In February 2008, the Company entered into an accelerated common
    stock repurchase agreement with a major bank. Under the
    agreement, the Company paid the bank $711 million in cash and
    the bank delivered an initial amount of 11.2 million shares
    of the Company s outstanding common stock that the bank
    borrowed from third parties. Final settlement of the agreement
    is scheduled to take place during the first half of 2008. The
    final number of shares the Company is repurchasing under the
    terms of the agreement and the timing of the final settlement
    will depend on, among other things, prevailing market conditions
    and the market prices of the common stock during the repurchase
    period. The Company recorded the consideration paid as a
    reduction to stockholders  equity.

From January 1, 2008 to February 25, 2008, the Company also
    repurchased 1.6 million of its shares through open market
    purchases for $89 million.

F-126

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule I  

Consolidated
    Summary of Investments    
    Other Than Investments in Related Parties 
    December 31, 2007 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

The Company s trading securities portfolio is mainly
    comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities. Cost or
    amortized cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage and
    consumer loans represents original cost reduced by repayments,
    net valuation allowances and writedowns from
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in value and adjusted for amortization of premiums or
    discounts; for equity securities, cost represents original cost
    reduced by writedowns from
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in value; for real estate, cost represents original
    cost reduced by writedowns and adjusted for valuation allowances
    and depreciation; cost for real estate joint ventures and other
    limited partnership interests represents original cost reduced
    for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and
    distributions. 

F-127

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information 
    (Parent Company Only) 
    December 31, 2007 and 2006 
    (In millions, except share and per share data)  

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.

F-128

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.

F-129

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information.

F-130

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information 

(Parent
    Company Only)  

1.    

Summary
    of Accounting Policies  

Business   

MetLife  or the  Company  refers to
    MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the
     Holding Company ), and its subsidiaries, including
    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). MetLife,
    Inc. is a leading provider of insurance and other financial
    services with operations throughout the United States and the
    regions of Latin America, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Through its
    domestic and international subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife
    offers life insurance, annuities, automobile and homeowners
    insurance, retail banking and other financial services to
    individuals, as well as group insurance, reinsurance and
    retirement   savings products and services to
    corporations and other institutions.

On July 1, 2005, the Holding Company completed the
    acquisition of The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding
    certain assets, most significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup
    Inc. ( Citigroup ), and substantially all of
    Citigroup s international insurance businesses
    (collectively,  Travelers ), for $12.1 billion.
    The results of Travelers  operations were included in the
    Company s financial statements beginning July 1, 2005.
    As a result of the acquisition, management of the Company
    increased significantly the size and scale of the Company s
    core insurance and annuity products and expanded the
    Company s presence in both the retirement  
    savings domestic and international markets. The distribution
    agreements executed with Citigroup as part of the acquisition
    provide the Company with one of the broadest distribution
    networks in the industry. The initial consideration paid in 2005
    by the Holding Company for the acquisition consisted of
    $10.9 billion in cash and 22,436,617 shares of the
    Holding Company s common stock with a market value of
    $1.0 billion to Citigroup and $100 million in other
    transaction costs. Additional consideration of $115 million
    was paid by the Holding Company to Citigroup in 2006. In
    addition to cash on-hand, the purchase price was financed
    through the issuance of common stock, debt securities, common
    equity units and preferred stock.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The condensed financial information of the Holding Company
    ( Parent Company Only ) should be read in conjunction
    with the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc. and
    subsidiaries and the notes thereto (the  Consolidated
    Financial Statements ). These condensed nonconsolidated
    financial statements reflect the results of operations,
    financial position and cash flows for the parent company only.
    Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity
    method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board
    ( APB ) Opinion No. 18,  The Equity Method of
    Accounting for Investments in Common Stock .

The condensed unconsolidated financial statements are prepared
    in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
    the United States of America ( GAAP ) except as stated
    previously which also requires management to make certain
    estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates
    and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements, the
    accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and
    the provision for potential losses that may arise from
    litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may
    affect the amounts reported in the condensed financial
    statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ
    materially from these estimates.

For information on the following, refer to the indicated Notes
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements of MetLife, Inc.:

Business, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies (Note 1)

Long-term and Short-term Debt (Note 10)

Collateral Financing Arrangements (Note 11)

F-131

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

Junior Subordinated Debentures (Note 12)

Common Equity Units (Note 13)

Contingencies, Commitments and Guarantees (Note 16)

Equity (Note 18)

Earnings per Common Share (Note 20)

Subsequent Events (Note 25)

2.  Value
    of Distribution Agreements  

As described previously in Note 2 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, distribution agreements were
    executed with Citigroup as part of the Travelers 
    acquisition. Information regarding the value of distribution
    agreements ( VODA ), which are reported in other
    assets, is as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Holding
    Company contributed the remaining amortized VODA to its
    subsidiaries which are receiving the benefit of such agreements.

3.    

Loans to
    Subsidiaries  

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

In December 2007, MLIC repaid the $800 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of 5.00% to the Holding Company and then
    issued to the Holding Company a $700 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.15%.

F-132

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of
    $105 million, $105 million and $59 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, is included within net investment income.

Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes, which are
    subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may
    be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department
    of the state of domicile.

4.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term
    Debt   

Long-term debt outstanding is as follows:

Issuances   

In September 2006, the Holding Company issued $204 million
    of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 6.07%
    maturing in 2016.

In March 2006, the Holding Company issued $10 million of
    affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.70%
    maturing in 2016.

In December 2005, the Holding Company issued $286 million
    of affiliated long-term debt with an interest rate of 5.24%
    maturing in 2015.

In connection with financing the acquisition of Travelers on
    July 1, 2005, which is described in Note 2 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Holding
    Company issued the following debt:

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued in the United States
    public market $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
    5.00% senior notes due June 15, 2015 at a discount of
    $2.7 million ($997.3 million), and $1.0 billion
    aggregate principal amount of 5.70% senior notes due
    June 15, 2035 at a discount of $2.4 million
    ($997.6 million).

F-133

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

In connection with the offering, the Holding Company incurred
    $12 million of issuance costs which have been capitalized
    and included in other assets. These costs are being amortized
    using the effective interest method over the respective term of
    the related senior notes.

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued 400 million pounds
    sterling ($729.2 million at issuance) aggregate principal
    amount of 5.25% senior notes due June 29, 2020 at a
    discount of 4.5 million pounds sterling ($8.1 million
    at issuance), for aggregate proceeds of 395.5 million
    pounds sterling ($721.1 million at issuance). These notes
    were initially offered and sold outside the United States in
    reliance upon Regulation S under the Securities Act, as
    amended. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company
    incurred $4 million of issuance costs which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being
    amortized using the effective interest method over the term of
    the related senior notes.

Repayments   

The Holding Company repaid a $500 million 5.25% senior
    note which matured in December 2006, and a $1,006 million
    3.911% senior note which matured in May 2005.

Short-term
    Debt   

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the Holding Company s
    short-term debt of $310 million and $616 million,
    respectively, consisted of commercial paper. During the years
    ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the commercial
    paper s average daily balance was $634 million,
    $1.1 billion and $104 million, respectively, and was
    outstanding for an average of 41 days, 32 days and
    80 days, respectively, with a weighted average interest
    rate of 4.9%, 5.2% and 4.2%, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense is comprised of the following:

Credit
    and Committed Facilities and Letters of Credit   

Credit Facilities.   In June 2007, the Holding
    Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. entered into a
    $3.0 billion credit agreement with various financial
    institutions, the proceeds of which are available to be used for
    general corporate purposes, to support their commercial paper
    programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All
    borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June
    2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination
    may remain outstanding until June 2013. The borrowers and the
    lenders under this facility may agree to extend the term of all
    or part of the facility to no later than June 2014, except that
    letters of credit outstanding upon termination may remain
    outstanding until June 2015. The $1.5 billion credit
    agreement, with an April 2009

F-134

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

expiration, and the $1.5 billion credit agreement, with an
    April 2010 expiration, were both terminated in June 2007 and
    replaced by the aforementioned facility.

At December 31, 2007, $1.5 billion of letters of
    credit have been issued under these unsecured credit facilities
    on behalf of the Holding Company.

Committed Facilities.   Information on the
    committed facilities as of December 31, 2007 is as follows:

(1)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

(3)  

In May 2007, MetLife Reinsurance Company of South Carolina
    ( MRSC ) terminated the $2.0 billion amended and
    restated five-year letter of credit and reimbursement agreement
    entered into among the Holding Company, MRSC and various
    institutional lenders on April 25, 2005. In its place the
    Company entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement as described in Note 5,
    which may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company and
    the financial institution on each anniversary of the closing of
    the facility for an additional one-year period. At
    December 31, 2007, $2.4 billion had been drawn upon
    under the collateral financing arrangement. 

(4)  

In December 2007, Exeter Reassurance Company Ltd.
    ( Exeter ) terminated four letters of credit, with
    expirations from March 2025 through December 2026, that were
    issued under a letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution in an aggregate amount of
    $1.7 billion. The letters of credit had served as
    collateral for Exeter s obligations under a reinsurance
    agreement that was recaptured by MLI-USA in December 2007.
    MLI-USA immediately thereafter entered into a new reinsurance
    agreement with MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont
    ( MRV ). To collateralize its reinsurance obligations,
    MRV and the Holding Company entered into a
     30-year, 
    $2.9 billion letter of credit facility with an unaffiliated
    financial institution. 

Letters of Credit.   At December 31, 2007,
    the Holding Company had $1.5 billion in outstanding letters
    of credit, all of which are associated with the aforementioned
    credit facilities, from various financial institutions. As
    commitments associated with letters of credit and financing
    arrangements may expire unused, these amounts do not necessarily
    reflect the Holding Company s actual future cash funding
    requirements.

F-135

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

5.    

Related
    Party Transactions  

Dividends   

The primary source of the Holding Company s liquidity is
    dividends it receives from its insurance subsidiaries. The
    Holding Company s insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends imposed by
    the regulators of their respective domiciles. The dividend
    limitation for U.S. insurance subsidiaries is based on the
    surplus to policyholders as of the immediately preceding
    calendar year and statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year. The maximum aggregate
    amount of dividends which the Holding Company subsidiaries may
    pay to the Holding Company in 2008 without insurance regulatory
    approval is $2,438 million.

Financing
    Arrangements Related to Subsidiaries   

As described more fully in Note 12, Junior Subordinated
    Debentures, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements during December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV
    ( Trust IV ) issued exchangeable surplus trust
    securities (the  Trust Securities ) with a face
    amount of $700 million and a discount of $6 million
    ($694 million), and a fixed rate of interest of 7.875% up
    to, but not including, December 15, 2037, the scheduled
    redemption date. The beneficial interest of Trust IV held
    by the Holding Company is not represented by an investment in
    Trust IV but rather by a financing agreement between the
    Holding Company and Trust IV. The assets of Trust IV
    are $700 million of 7.375% surplus notes of MLIC, which are
    scheduled to mature December 15, 2037, and rights under the
    financing agreement. Under the financing agreement, the Holding
    Company has the obligation to make payments
    (i) semiannually at a fixed rate of 0.50% of the surplus
    notes outstanding and owned by Trust IV or if greater
    (ii) equal to the difference between the
    Trust Securities interest payment and the interest received
    by Trust IV on the surplus notes. The ability of MLIC to
    make interest and principal payments on the surplus notes to the
    Holding Company is contingent upon regulatory approval. The
    Trust Securities, will be exchanged into a like amount of
    Holding Company junior subordinated debentures on
    December 15, 2037, the scheduled redemption date;
    mandatorily under certain circumstances; and at any time upon
    the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the
    securities. The Trust Securities will be exchanged for
    junior subordinated debentures prior to repayment and the
    Holding Company is ultimately responsible for repayment of the
    junior subordinated debentures. The Holding Company s other
    rights and obligations as it relates to the deferral of
    interest, redemption, replacement capital obligation and
    replacement capital covenant associated with the issuance of the
    Trust Securities are more fully described in Note 12
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of
    MetLife, Inc.

As described more fully in Note 11, Collateral Financing
    Arrangements, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements:

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of Charleston s ( MRC )
    reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under which
    the Holding Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on
    the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 55 basis points in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 112 basis points, payable quarterly. Under this
    agreement, the Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution related to
    any decline in the market value of the surplus notes and in
    connection with any early termination of this agreement. The
    Holding Company s net cost of 57 basis points has been
    allocated to MRC. For the year ended December 31, 2007,
    this amount was immaterial.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into
    an agreement with an unaffiliated

F-136

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

financial institution under which the Holding Company is
    entitled to the return on the investment portfolio held by the
    trust established in connection with this collateral financing
    arrangement in exchange for the payment of a stated rate of
    return to the unaffiliated financial institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 70 basis points, payable quarterly. The Holding
    Company may also be required to make payments to the
    unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit into the trust,
    related to any decline in the market value of the assets held by
    the trust, as well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early
    termination of the collateral financing arrangement. As a result
    of this agreement, the Holding Company effectively assumed the
    $2.4 billion liability under the collateral financing
    arrangement along with a beneficial interest in the trust
    holding the associated assets. The Holding Company
    simultaneously contributed to MRSC its beneficial interest in
    the trust, along with any return to be received on the
    investment portfolio held by the trust. Interest expense
    incurred by the Holding Company under the collateral financing
    arrangement for the year ended December 31, 2007 was
    $84 million. The allocation of these financing costs of
    $84 million to MRSC is included in other revenues and
    recorded as an additional investment in MRSC.

Support
    Agreements   

The Holding Company, in connection with MRV s reinsurance
    of certain universal life and term life insurance risks,
    committed to the Vermont Department of Banking, Insurance,
    Securities and Health Care Administration to take necessary
    action to cause each of the two initial protected cells of MRV
    to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200%
    of such protected cell s authorized control
    level risk-based capital ( RBC ), as defined in
    state insurance statutes. This transaction is more fully
    described in Note 10, Long-term and Short-term Debt, of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the
    closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so
    that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at
    a level of not less than 200% of the company action
    level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in
    effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007,
    whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement,
    or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance. This collateral financing arrangement is more fully
    described in Note 11, Collateral Financing Arrangements, of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to
    the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary
    action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to
    the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSC s authorized
    control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.
    This collateral financing arrangement is more fully described in
    Note 11, Collateral Financing Arrangements, of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state
    insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet
    its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance
    agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited
    ( MSMIC ), an investment in Japan of which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC
    to

F-137

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Notes to
    Condensed Financial Information   (Continued) 
    (Parent Company Only)  

have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to
    maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in
    accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make
    such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment
    obligations as they fall due.

During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    the Holding Company was not required to provide support to any
    of its subsidiaries under these agreements.

Other   

See Note 3 for description of loans to subsidiaries.

See Note 4 for description of the Holding Company s
    debt with subsidiaries.

F-138

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule III   

Consolidated
    Supplementary Insurance Information 
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other
    policyholder funds and policyholder dividend obligation column. 

F-139

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule III   (Continued)  

Consolidated Supplementary Insurance Information 

December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 

(In millions) 

(1)  

Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding
    amortization of DAC and VOBA charged to other expenses. 

F-140

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule IV 

Consolidated
    Reinsurance 
    December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 
    (In millions)  

F-141

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
    that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and
    procedures are effective.

There were no changes to the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the Company s internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility,
    estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the
    expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The
    objectives of internal control include providing management with
    reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are
    safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition,
    and that transactions are executed in accordance with
    management s authorization and recorded properly to permit
    the preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with GAAP.

Financial management has documented and evaluated the
    effectiveness of the internal control of the Company as of
    December 31, 2007 pertaining to financial reporting in
    accordance with the criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2007.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial
    statements and consolidated financial statement schedules
    included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Report of the
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on their audit of
    the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
    statement schedules is included at
     page F-1. 

Attestation
    Report of the Company s Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   

The Company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their
    attestation report on management s internal control over
    financial reporting which is set forth below.

182

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007,
    of the Company, and our report dated February 28, 2008,
    expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules and included an
    explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s
    method of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for
    income taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on
    January 1, 2007.

/s/   DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP 

DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 28, 2008

183

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

On February 26, 2008, the Holding Company s Board of
    Directors elected Eduardo
     Castro-Wright 
    and Lulu C. Wang as directors of the Holding Company, effective
    March 3, 2008. Neither
     Mr. Castro-Wright 
    nor Ms. Wang has presently been appointed to any committees
    of the Board of Directors, but
     Mr. Castro-Wright 
    is expected to be appointed to the Audit, Compensation and
    Governance Committees of the Board, and Ms. Wang is
    expected to be appointed to the Governance and Public
    Responsibility Committees of the Board. With the addition of
     Mr. Castro-Wright 
    and Ms. Wang, the Board will have 16 members.

Mr. Castro-Wright 
    and Ms. Wang will participate in the non-management
    director compensation arrangements described in the Holding
    Company s 2007 proxy statement. Under the terms of those
    arrangements, each will receive an annual retainer of
    $225,000 per year, which will be paid equally in cash and
    shares of the Holding Company s common stock. The retainer
    covers the period of Board service commencing at the Holding
    Company s annual shareholders meeting and ending at its
    next annual shareholders meeting. For the period ending at the
    2008 annual shareholders meeting,
     Mr. Castro-Wright 
    and Ms. Wang will receive a prorated retainer, paid equally
    in cash and shares of the Holding Company s common stock,
    to reflect the length of their service for such period.

184

Table of Contents   

Part III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors
    is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled
     Proposal One   Election of Directors, 
     Corporate Governance   Information About the
    Board of Directors,   Corporate Governance  
    Board Committees,   Corporate Governance  
    Membership on Board Committees  and  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy
    statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    April 22, 2008, to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
    pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the
    year ended December 31, 2007 (the  2008 Proxy
    Statement ).

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive
    Officers appears in  Part I   Item 1.
    Business   Executive Officers of the Registrant. 

The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of
    Professional Conduct (the  Financial Management
    Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the
    rules of the SEC, that applies to the Holding Company s
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
    Accounting Officer, Corporate Controller and all professionals
    in finance and finance-related departments. In addition, the
    Company has adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct
    and Ethics (the  Directors  Code ) which applies
    to all members of the Holding Company s Board of Directors,
    including the Chief Executive Officer, and the Employee Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial
    Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the
     Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the
    Company, including the Holding Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and
    Corporate Controller. The Ethics Codes are available on the
    Company s website at
     http://www.metlife.com/corporategovernance. 
    The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    by posting information about amendments to, or waivers from a
    provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to the Holding
    Company s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
    Chief Accounting Officer, and Corporate Controller on the
    Company s website at the address given above.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate
    Governance   Compensation of Non-Management
    Directors,   Compensation Committee Report, 
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary
    Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
    2007,   Outstanding Equity Awards at 2007 Fiscal-Year
    End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in
    2007,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified
    Deferred Compensation  and  Potential Payments Upon
    Termination or
     Change-in-Control  
    in the 2008 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to ownership
    of the Holding Company s common stock is incorporated
    herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in
    the 2008 Proxy Statement.

The following table provides information, as of
    December 31, 2007, regarding the securities authorized for
    issuance under the Holding Company s equity compensation
    plans:

185

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information as of December 31,
    2007  

(1)  

Includes the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the
     2000 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc.
    2000 Directors Stock Plan (the  2000 Directors
    Stock Plan ) each of which was approved by MLIC, the sole
    shareholder of the Holding Company at the time of approval. The
    policyholders of MLIC entitled to vote on its plan of
    reorganization (the  Plan ) approved that the Plan,
    which included both the 2000 Stock Plan and the
    2000 Directors Stock Plan. The policyholders entitled to so
    vote received a summary description of each plan, including the
    applicable limits on the number of shares available for issuance
    under each plan. 

(2)  

The aggregate number of shares of common stock of the Holding
    Company ( Shares ) reserved for issuance under the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Stock Plan ), is 68,000,000. As of
    December 31, 2007, 11,917,472 additional Shares that were
    available but had not been utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan at
    the time the 2005 Stock Plan became effective, as well as
    588,531 Shares recovered due to forfeiture or expiration of
    awards under the 2000 Stock Plan from that time through
    December 31, 2007, are available for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan. 

Under the 2005 Stock Plan, awards granted may be in the form of
    Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or
    Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share
    Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based Awards (each as
    defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). Stock Options, Performance
    Shares, Restricted Stock Units and Stock-Based Awards have been
    awarded under the 2005 Stock Plan. 

Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with
    awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights
    (including Shares payable on account of Performance Shares,
    Restricted Stock Units, and Stock-Based Awards) reduces the
    number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock
    Plan by 1.179 Shares. Accordingly, outstanding Preferred
    Stock Units and outstanding Performance Shares are reflected as
    reducing the number of Shares remaining for issuance by a factor
    of 1.179. Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in
    connection with a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right
    reduces the number of Shares remaining for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan by 1.0. Accordingly, outstanding Stock Options
    are reflected as reducing the number of Shares remaining for
    issuance by a factor of 1.0. 

Share awards to Directors were made under a separate Share award
    authorization under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan. Those
    awards have not reduced the number of Shares remaining available
    for issuance as of December 31, 2007. Under the MetLife,
    Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may
    be in the form of non-qualified stock options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan). Share awards have been made
    under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. The number of Shares
    reserved for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan
    is 2,000,000. 

Stock Options outstanding as December 31, 2007 are included
    in column (a) and are included in column (b) at their
    weighted average exercise price. 

Under the award agreements that apply to the Performance Share
    awards, Shares are payable to eligible award recipients
    following the conclusion of the performance period. The number
    of shares payable is determined by multiplying the number of
    performance shares by a performance factor (from 0% to 200%)
    based on the performance of the Holding Company with respect to:
    (i) change in annual net operating earnings per share; and  

186

Table of Contents   

(ii) proportionate total shareholder return, as defined, as
    a percentile of the performance of other companies in the
    Standard   Poor s Insurance Index, with regard to
    the performance period. Performance Shares that were unvested on
    December 31, 2007, or that vested by December 31, 2007
    but whose performance factor has not yet been determined and has
    not yet become payable, are included in column (a) assuming
    the maximum performance factor, but are not included in
    determining the weighted average in column (b) because they
    have no exercise price. 

Under the award agreements that apply to the Restricted Stock
    Unit awards, Shares are equal to the number of Restricted Stock
    Units awarded are normally payable to eligible award recipients
    on the third or later anniversary of the date the Restricted
    Stock Units were granted. Restricted Stock Units that were
    unvested by December 31, 2007 are included in column (a),
    but are not included in determining the weighted average in
    column (b) because they have no exercise price. 

Shares that had become payable from any awards but had been
    deferred and remained unpaid as of December 31, 2007 are
    included in column (a), but are not included in determining the
    weighted average in column (b) because they have no
    exercise price. 

Under both the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock
    Plan, in the event of a corporate event or transaction
    (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares or the
    capitalization of the Holding Company) such as a merger,
    consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation,
    stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse
    stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock
    or property of the Holding Company, combination of securities,
    exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change
    in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash
    dividends) to shareholders of the Holding Company, or any
    similar corporate event or transaction, the appropriate
    committee of the Board of Directors of the Holding Company
    (each, a  Committee ), in order to prevent dilution or
    enlargement of participants  rights under the applicable
    plan, shall in its sole discretion substitute or adjust, as
    applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued
    under that plan and shall adjust the number and kind of Shares
    subject to outstanding awards. Any Shares related to awards
    under either plan which: (i) terminate by expiration,
    forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of
    Shares; (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares
    or otherwise; or (iii) are exchanged with the appropriate
    Committee s permission for awards not involving Shares, are
    available again for grant under the applicable plan. If the
    option price of any Stock Option granted under either plan or
    the tax withholding requirements with respect to any award
    granted under either plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to
    the Holding Company (by either actual delivery or by
    attestation), or if a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised,
    only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if
    any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the
    maximum number of Shares available for issuance under that plan.
    The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under either
    plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend
    equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or
    credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards. 

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person
    Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  
    Information About the Board of Directors  
    Responsibilities, Independence and Composition of the Board of
    Directors  in the 2008 Proxy Statement.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the section entitled
     Proposal Two   Ratification of Appointment
    of the Independent Auditor  in the 2008 Proxy Statement.

187

Table of Contents   

Part IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. Financial Statements

The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules on page 181.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 181.

3. Exhibits

The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins
    on
     page E-1. 

188

Table of Contents   

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

February 28, 2008

METLIFE, INC.

By 

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

Name:     C. Robert Henrikson

Title: 

Chairman of the Board, President 

and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

189

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   David
    Satcher, M.D. 

David
    Satcher, M.D.

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/   Kenton
    J. Sicchitano 

Kenton
    J. Sicchitano

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/   William
    C. Steere, Jr. 

William
    C. Steere, Jr.

Director

February 28, 2008

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

C.
    Robert Henrikson

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief 
    Executive Officer  
    (Principal Executive Officer)

February 28, 2008

/s/   William
    J. Wheeler 

William
    J. Wheeler

Executive Vice President and Chief  
    Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

February 28, 2008

/s/   Joseph
    J. Prochaska, Jr. 

Joseph
    J. Prochaska, Jr.

Executive Vice President, Finance Operations  
    and Chief Accounting Officer  
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 28, 2008

190

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index  

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

2

.1

Plan of Reorganization (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement
    on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-91517) 
    (the
      S-1 
    Registration Statement ))

2

.2

Amendment to Plan of Reorganization dated as of March 9,
    2000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

2

.3

Acquisition Agreement between MetLife, Inc. and Citigroup Inc.,
    dated as of January 31, 2005 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated February 4, 2005)

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife,
    Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (the  2006
    Annual Report ))

3

.2

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife,
    Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on
    April 7, 2000 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.2 to the 2006 Annual Report)

3

.3

Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
    Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 10, 2005)

3

.4

Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary
    of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife, Inc. s
    Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 15, 2005)

3

.5

MetLife, Inc. Amended and Restated By-Laws effective
    June 19, 2007 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated June 25, 2007 (the  June 2007
     Form 8-K )) 

4

.1(a)

Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 between MetLife,
    Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.) relating to Senior
    Debt Securities (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report)

4

.1(b)

Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between MetLife,
    Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as
    Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2) of the
    Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (Included in
    Exhibit 4.1(a) incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report, except for the
    name of the trustee)

4

.2

Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 27, 2001
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.125% Senior Notes due December 1,
    2011 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the 2006
    Annual Report)

4

.3

Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15,
    2012

4

.4

Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15,
    2032

4

.5

Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 21, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.875% Senior
    Notes due November 21, 2033 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated November 21, 2003 (the  Retail
     Form 8-K ) 

4

.6

Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 24, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.00% Senior
    Notes due November 24, 2013 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated November 24, 2003 (the  Institutional
     Form 8-K )) 

E-1

Table of Contents   

E-2

Table of Contents   

E-3

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

4

.39

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust V
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife,
    Inc. s, MetLife Capital Trust V s, MetLife
    Capital Trust VI s, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII s, MetLife Capital Trust VIII s
    and MetLife Capital Trust IX s Registration Statement
    on
     Form S-3 
    (Nos.
     333-147180, 
     333-147180-01, 
     333-147180-02, 
     333-147180-03, 
     333-147180-04 
    and
     333-147180-05) 
    (the  2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement ))

4

.40

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.41

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.42

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.43

Certificate of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.44

Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital
    Trust II dated as of June 21, 2005 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.45

Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital
    Trust III dated as of June 21, 2005 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.17 to the June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.46

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust V
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.47

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.48

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.49

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.50

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.51

Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.52

Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Included in Exhibit 4.53
    incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.53

Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between
    MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan
    Trust Company National Association (predecessor to The Bank
    of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Guarantee Trustee,
    relating to MetLife Capital Trust II (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.18 to the June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.54

Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between
    MetLife, Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan
    Trust Company, National Association (predecessor to The
    Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Guarantee
    Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital Trust III
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 to the
    June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.55

Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement
    (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for
    MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI,
    MetLife Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII
    and MetLife Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.15 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.56

Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital
    Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.16 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

E-4

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

4

.57

Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital
    Trust II (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to
    the 2004  S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.58

Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital
    Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10
    to the 2004
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)

4

.59

Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

4

.60

Rights Agreement dated as of April 4, 2000 between MetLife,
    Inc. and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. (predecessor
    to Mellon Investor Services LLC) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.48 to the 2006 Annual Report)

4

.61

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife,
    Inc., filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on
    April 7, 2000 (see Exhibit 3.2 above)

4

.62

Form of Right Certificate (Included as Exhibit B of
    Exhibit 4.60 incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48
    to the 2006 Annual Report)

4

.63

Form of Warrant Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.21 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**

4

.64

Form of Deposit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.22 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**

4

.65

Form of Depositary Receipt (Included in Exhibit 4.64)**

4

.66

Form of Purchase Contract Agreement (Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 4.24 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**

4

.67

Form of Pledge Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.25 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**

4

.68

Form of Unit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.26 to the 2007
     S-3 
    Registration Statement)**

4

.69

Stock Purchase Contract Agreement dated June 21, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York
    Trust Company, N.A.), as Stock Purchase Contract Agent
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
    June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.70

Form of Normal Common Equity Unit Certificate (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.71

Form of Stripped Common Equity Unit Certificate (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.72

Pledge Agreement dated as of June 21, 2005 among MetLife,
    Inc., JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association (predecessor to
    The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Collateral
    Agent, Custodial Agent and Securities Intermediary, and J.P
    Morgan Trust Company, National Association (predecessor to
    The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.), as Stock
    Purchase Contract Agent (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.4 to the June 22, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

4

.73

Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
    Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005 (See
    Exhibit 3.3 above)

4

.74

Form of Stock Certificate, Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated
    by reference of Exhibit 99.6 to MetLife, Inc. s
    Registration Statement on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 10, 2005)

4

.75

Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary
    of State of Delaware on June 14, 2005 (See Exhibit 3.4
    above)

4

.76

Form of Stock Certificate, 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B, of MetLife, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.6 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement
    on
     Form 8-A 
    filed on June 15, 2005)

E-5

Table of Contents   

E-6

Table of Contents   

E-7

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

10

.38

Amendment to Management Performance Share Agreements under the
    2005 SIC Plan (effective as of December 31, 2007)
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    December 13, 2007
     Form 8-K)* 

10

.39

Policyholder Trust Agreement (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.12 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

10

.40

Restatement of the Excess Asbestos Indemnity Insurance Policy,
    dated as of December 31, 1998, between Stockwood
    Reinsurance Company, Ltd. and Metropolitan Life Insurance
    Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

10

.41

Restatement of the Excess Asbestos Indemnity Insurance Policy,
    dated as of December 31, 1998, between European Reinsurance
    Corporation of America and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

10

.42

Restatement of the Excess Asbestos Indemnity Insurance Policy,
    dated as of December 31, 1998, between Granite State
    Insurance Company and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

10

.43

Amended and Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of
    August 15, 2006, among MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding,
    Inc., as borrowers, and the other parties signatory thereto
    (amending and restating the Amended and Restated Five-Year
    Credit Agreement, dated as of April 23, 2004, among
    MetLife, Inc., Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, MetLife
    Funding, Inc., and the other parties signatory thereto,
    effective December 21, 2006) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.33 to the 2006 Annual Report)

10

.44

Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of April 22, 2005
    ( Five-Year Credit Agreement ), among MetLife, Inc.
    and MetLife Funding, Inc., as borrowers, and other parties
    signatory thereto (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on
     Form 8-K 
    dated April 28, 2005 (the  April 28, 2005
     Form 8-K )) 

10

.45

First Amendment to Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of
    August 15, 2006, among MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding,
    Inc., as borrowers, and other parties signatory thereto
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the 2006
    Annual Report)

10

.46

Amended and Restated Five-Year Letter of Credit and
    Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2005, among
    MetLife, Inc., The Travelers Life and Annuity Reinsurance
    Company (now known as MetLife Reinsurance Company of South
    Carolina), and other parties signatory thereto (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the April 28, 2005
     Form 8-K) 

10

.47

Five-Year $3,000,000,000 Credit Agreement, dated as of
    June 20, 2007, among MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Funding,
    Inc., as borrowers, and other parties signatory thereto
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the June 2007
     Form 8-K) 

10

.48

Stipulation of Settlement, as amended, relating to Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company Sales Practices Litigation (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the
     S-1 
    Registration Statement)

10

.49

Long-Term Performance Compensation Plan (for performance periods
    starting on or after April 1, 2001, as amended)
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002)*

10

.50

MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan ( AVIP )
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the First
    Quarter 2004
     10-Q)* 

10

.51

Amendment Number One to the AVIP (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the December 2005
     Form 8-K)* 

10

.52

Resolutions of the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors (adopted
    December 13, 2005) regarding the selection of
    performance measures for 2006 awards under the AVIP
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the December
    2005
     Form 8-K)* 

10

.53

Resolutions of the MetLife, Inc. Board of Directors (adopted
    December 12, 2006) regarding the selection of
    performance measures for 2007 awards under the AVIP
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.42 to the 2006
    Annual Report)*

E-8

Table of Contents   

E-9

Table of Contents   

E-10

Table of Contents   

*  

Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements. 

**  

Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    or Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    pursuant to Item 601 of
     Regulation S-K 
    and incorporated herein by reference. 

E-11

<EX-4.3>
 2
 y48170exv4w3.txt
 EX-4.3: THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

Exhibit 4.3

METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       AND

                          BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                     TRUSTEE

__________________

                          THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                          DATED AS OF DECEMBER 10, 2002
                               __________________

$400,000,000

                               5.375% SENIOR NOTES

                              DUE DECEMBER 15, 2012

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

                                    ARTICLE I

                    5.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2012

(1) This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Third Supplemental
Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of its
terms or provisions.

2

THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 10th day of
December, 2002, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., a national banking corporation, as
trustee (the "Trustee"):

         WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as
of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this
reference and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Third Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

         WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of senior notes may
at any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in
accordance with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such
series may be described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and
the Trustee;

         WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new
series of senior notes;

         WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

         WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                    5.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2012

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

         There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.375% Senior Notes due
December 15, 2012 (the "2012 Senior Notes").

         There are to be authenticated and delivered 2012 Senior Notes,
initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000, and no further
2012 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as provided by
Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of

3
 
the Original Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount
of the 2012 Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of
the holders of the 2012 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP
and ISIN numbers as the 2012 Senior Notes. The 2012 Senior Notes shall be issued
in fully registered form.

         The 2012 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary
with respect to the 2012 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.

         The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2012
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

         Each 2012 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof
and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance thereof or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

         The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

         "Interest Payment Date" means June 15 and December 15 of each year,
commencing June 15, 2003.

         "Original Issue Date" means December 10, 2002.

         "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment
Date, the close of business on the preceding June 1 or December 1, as the case
may be.

         "Stated Maturity" means December 15, 2012.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

         The principal of the 2012 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity.
The unpaid principal amount of the 2012 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the
rate of 5.375% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid
semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 15,
2003, to the Person in whose name the 2012 Senior Notes are registered on the
Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest
payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom
principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly
provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular
Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 4.01 of the Original
Indenture.

         Payments of interest on the 2012 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2012 Senior

4

Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on
the 2012 Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest
payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business
Day, except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year,
such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each
case with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was
originally payable.

         Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the
2012 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2012 Senior Notes at the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on the 2012
Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment
Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer
at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States
as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the
date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

         The 2012 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $1,000, or any
integral multiple thereof.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

         The 2012 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2012 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2012 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

         Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2012 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

         A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2012 Senior Notes
registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only
as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security
that is exchangeable pursuant to the

5

preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2012 Senior Notes registered in
such names as the Depositary shall direct.

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

         No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2012 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

         The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture
will apply to the 2012 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

         The 2012 Senior Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the
option of the Company at any time (a "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price
(the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
amount of the 2012 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the
sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for principal and
interest on the 2012 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of
the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date, discounted to such
Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis points; plus in each
case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2012 Senior Notes to be redeemed to
such Redemption Date.

         "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

         "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2012 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2012 Senior Notes.

         "Independent Investment Banker" means either Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated or Wachovia Securities, Inc., as specified by the
Company, and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to
select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking
institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation
with the Company.

6

"Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date
for the 2012 Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer
Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than
five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such
quotations.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. and three other primary U.S.
government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified
by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. or any Primary Treasury Dealer as
specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the
Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the
Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then
the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the 2012 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the
Trustee shall select the 2012 Senior Notes or portions of the 2012 Senior Notes
to be redeemed by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
The Trustee may select for redemption 2012 Senior Notes and portions of 2012
Senior Notes in amounts of whole multiples of $1,000.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

         The recitals in this Third Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be

7

applicable in respect of the 2012 Senior Notes and of this Third Supplemental
Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

         As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects
ratified and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Third Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

         This Third Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                                METLIFE, INC.

By: /s/: Anthony J. Williamson
                                                    Name: Anthony J. Williamson
                                                    Title: SVP and Treasurer

                                                BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By: /s/: Mary R. Fonti
                                                    Name: Mary R. Fonti
                                                    Title: Vice-President

9

EXHIBIT A

                FORM OF 5.375% SENIOR NOTE DUE DECEMBER 15, 2012

         THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

         EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

No.                                                        CUSIP No. 59156R AD 0
                                                           ISIN No. US59156RAD08

                                  METLIFE, INC.
                               5.375 % Senior Note
                              Due December 15, 2012

Principal Amount:          $

Regular Record Date:       with respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close
                           of business on the preceding June 1 or December 1, as
                           the case may be

Original Issue Date:       December 10, 2002

Stated Maturity:           December 15, 2012

Interest Payment Dates:    June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2003

Interest Rate:             5.375% per year

10

Authorized Denomination:   $1,000

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term
includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the
reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or
registered assigns, the principal sum of ____________ ($_________) on the Stated
Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the Original Issue Date
shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has
been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest
Payment Date as specified above, commencing on June 15, 2003, and on the Stated
Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or
made available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 4.01 of the Original Indenture.

         Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, except that, if
such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made
on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal of and interest due at the Stated Maturity of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of
interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject
to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check
mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to
such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated
in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the
Person entitled thereto.

         The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be senior
unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment
with all of the other senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the
Company from time to time

11

outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated indebtedness
of the Company.

         REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET
FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES
HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

12

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

METLIFE, INC.

                                                     By:
                                                        ------------------------
                                                        Name:
                                                        Title:

Attest:

- ------------------------
Name:
Title:

[Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15, 2012 referred
to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                                   as Trustee

By:
                                                      --------------------------
                                                      Authorized Officer

13

(Reverse Side of Note)

         This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the
Company issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Third
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2002 (the "Third Supplemental
Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between
the Company and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee," which
term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and
all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder
of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued
thereunder and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be,
authenticated and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on
the face hereof as 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15, 2012 (the "Senior
Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000;
provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may
be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior
Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the Senior
Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein
shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

         This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for
Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided
herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the
Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note
or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good
standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other
applicable statute or regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor
Depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes
aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole
discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of
this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the
Security Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall
be so exchangeable, this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this
series in definitive registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes
so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $1,000 and any
integral multiples, without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal amount
and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above,
owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior
Notes registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical
delivery of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

         If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and
be continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable
in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

14

The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

         The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

         The Senior Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option
of the Company at any time (a "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
"Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of
the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the sum of the
present values of the remaining scheduled payments for principal and interest on
the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of the payments of
interest accrued as of such Redemption Date, discounted to such Redemption Date
on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day
months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis points; plus in each case, accrued
and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed to such Redemption Date.

         "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

         "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

         "Independent Investment Banker" means either Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated or Wachovia Securities, Inc., as specified by the
Company, and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to
select the Comparable Treasury

15

Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing
appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

         "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date
for the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc., and three other primary U.S.
government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified
by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. or any Primary Treasury Dealer as
specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the
Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the
Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then
the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
will select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select
for redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of whole
multiples of $1,000.

         No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for

16

registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company for such
purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in
form satisfactory to the Company or the Security Registrar and duly executed by,
the holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one
or more new Senior Notes, of authorized denominations and of like tenor and for
the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee
or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such exchange or
registration of transfer, but the Company will require payment of a sum
sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection
therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

         The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons
in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the
Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Senior Notes are
exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes of a
different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the
same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be exchanged at the
office or agency of the Company.

         No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

         This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the state of New York.

17

ABBREVIATIONS

         The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face
of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common      UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under Uniform
                                    Gift to Minors Act

                                    -------------------------
                                    (State)

TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of
         survivorship and not as
         tenants in common

                    Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    (please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:                              --------------------------------------------
       ---------------
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                     NOTICE: The signature to this assignment
                                    must correspond with the name as written
                                    upon the face of the within instrument in
                                    every particular without alteration or
                                    enlargement, or any change whatever.

18

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15, 2012 referred
to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                                as Trustee

By:
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                   Authorized Officer

</EX-4.3>

<EX-4.4>
 3
 y48170exv4w4.txt
 EX-4.4: FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

EXHIBIT 4.4

METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                      AND

                         BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                    TRUSTEE

------------------

                         FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                         DATED AS OF DECEMBER 10, 2002

                               ------------------

$600,000,000

                               6.50% SENIOR NOTES

                             DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032
 
                              TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

ARTICLE I

                    6.50% SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032

- ----------
(1)   This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Fourth Supplemental
      Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of
      its terms or provisions.

2
 
      THIS FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 10th day of December,
2002, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
Bank One Trust Company, N.A., a national banking corporation, as trustee (the
"Trustee"):

      WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference
and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

      WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of senior notes may at
any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance
with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such series may
be described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the
Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series
of senior notes;

      WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Indenture a
valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                    6.50% SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

      There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 6.50% Senior Notes due
December 15, 2032 (the "2032 Senior Notes").

      There are to be authenticated and delivered 2032 Senior Notes, initially
limited in aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000, and no further 2032
Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as provided by Section
2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of

3
 
the Original Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount
of the 2032 Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of
the holders of the 2032 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP
and ISIN numbers as the 2032 Senior Notes. The 2032 Senior Notes shall be issued
in fully registered form.

      The 2032 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary
with respect to the 2032 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.

      The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2032
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

      Each 2032 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof
and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance thereof or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

      The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

      "Interest Payment Date" means June 15 and December 15 of each year,
commencing June 15, 2003.

      "Original Issue Date" means December 10, 2002.

      "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
the close of business on the preceding June 1 or December 1, as the case may be.

      "Stated Maturity" means December 15, 2032.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

      The principal of the 2032 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity.
The unpaid principal amount of the 2032 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the
rate of 6.50% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid
semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing June 15,
2003, to the Person in whose name the 2032 Senior Notes are registered on the
Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest
payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom
principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly
provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular
Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 4.01 of the Original
Indenture.

      Payments of interest on the 2032 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2032 Senior

4
 
Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on
the 2032 Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest
payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business
Day, except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year,
such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each
case with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was
originally payable.

      Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the
2032 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2032 Senior Notes at the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on the 2032
Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment
Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer
at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States
as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the
date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

      The 2032 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $1,000, or any
integral multiple thereof.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

      The 2032 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2032 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2032 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

      Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2032 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

      A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2032 Senior Notes registered
in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only as
provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security that
is exchangeable pursuant to the

5
 
preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2032 Senior Notes registered in
such names as the Depositary shall direct.

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2032 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will
apply to the 2032 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

      The 2032 Senior Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the
option of the Company at any time (a "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price
(the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal
amount of the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the
sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for principal and
interest on the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of
the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date, discounted to such
Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of
twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points; plus in each
case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed to
such Redemption Date.

      "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2032 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2032 Senior Notes.

      "Independent Investment Banker" means either Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated or Wachovia Securities, Inc., as specified by the Company,
and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

6
 
      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for
the 2032 Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer
Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than
five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such
quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. and three other primary U.S.
government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified
by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. or any Primary Treasury Dealer as
specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the
Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the
Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then
the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect
to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee
shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

      If less than all of the 2032 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
shall select the 2032 Senior Notes or portions of the 2032 Senior Notes to be
redeemed by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The
Trustee may select for redemption 2032 Senior Notes and portions of 2032 Senior
Notes in amounts of whole multiples of $1,000.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

      The recitals in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company
only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the Original
Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and duties of
the Trustee shall be

7
 
applicable in respect of the 2032 Senior Notes and of this Fourth Supplemental
Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

      As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified
and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Fourth Supplemental Indenture
shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

      This Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

8
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

By:  /s/: Anthony J. Williamson
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name: Anthony J. Williamson
                                                 Title: SVP and Treasurer

BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By:  /s/: Mary R. Fonti
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name: Mary R. Fonti
                                                 Title: Vice-President

9
 
                                   EXHIBIT A

                FORM OF 6.50% SENIOR NOTE DUE DECEMBER 15, 2032

      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

No. ____                                                CUSIP No. 59156R AE 8
                                                        ISIN No. US59156RAE80

                                 METLIFE, INC.
                               6.50% Senior Note
                             Due December 15, 2032

Principal Amount:                  $

Regular Record Date:               with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
                                   the close of business on the preceding June 1
                                   or December 1, as the case may be

Original Issue Date:               December 10, 2002

Stated Maturity:                   December 15, 2032

Interest Payment Dates:            June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15,
                                   2003

Interest Rate:                     6.50% per year

10
 
Authorized Denomination:           $1,000

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse
hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered
assigns, the principal sum of ____________ ($_________) on the Stated Maturity
shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the Original Issue Date shown
above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been
paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment
Date as specified above, commencing on June 15, 2003, and on the Stated Maturity
at the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or made
available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 4.01 of the Original Indenture.

      Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, except that, if
such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made
on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal of and interest due at the Stated Maturity of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of
interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject
to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check
mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to
such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated
in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the
Person entitled thereto.

      The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be senior
unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment
with all of the other senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the
Company from time to time

11
 
outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated indebtedness
of the Company.

      REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH
ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE
SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

12
 
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                                     METLIFE, INC.

                                                     By: _______________________
                                                         Name:
                                                         Title:

Attest:

____________________
Name:
Title:

[Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                         CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                                   BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                                   as Trustee

                                                   By: _________________________
                                                       Authorized Officer

13
 
                             (Reverse Side of Note)

      This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the Company
issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Fourth
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2002 (the "Fourth Supplemental
Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between
the Company and Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee," which
term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and
all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder
of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued
thereunder and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be,
authenticated and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on
the face hereof as 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032 (the "Senior
Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000;
provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may
be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior
Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the Senior
Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein
shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

      This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for Senior
Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided herein and
in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the Company that it
is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time
the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or
regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition,
as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that
this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive
registered form and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written
order of the Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this
Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive
registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes so issued in exchange
for this Note shall be in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples,
without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal amount and tenor as the
portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of
beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior Notes
registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical delivery
of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be considered the
holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the
Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

      If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and be
continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable in
the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

14
 
      The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

      The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

      The Senior Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of
the Company at any time (a "Redemption Date"), at a redemption price (the
"Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of
the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal to the sum of the
present values of the remaining scheduled payments for principal and interest on
the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any portion of the payments of
interest accrued as of such Redemption Date, discounted to such Redemption Date
on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day
months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis points; plus in each case, accrued
and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed to such Redemption Date.

      "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

      "Independent Investment Banker" means either Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith Incorporated or Wachovia Securities, Inc., as specified by the Company,
and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury

15
 
Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing
appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for
the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for
such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc., and three other primary U.S.
government securities dealers (each a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), as specified
by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Incorporated, Wachovia Securities, Inc. or any Primary Treasury Dealer as
specified by the Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the
Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the
Company fails to select a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then
the substitute will be a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after
consultation with the Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect
to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee
shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

      If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee will
select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select
for redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of whole
multiples of $1,000.

      No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of
the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

      As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for

16
 
registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company for such
purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in
form satisfactory to the Company or the Security Registrar and duly executed by,
the holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one
or more new Senior Notes, of authorized denominations and of like tenor and for
the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee
or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such exchange or
registration of transfer, but the Company will require payment of a sum
sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection
therewith.

      Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

      The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in
denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the
Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Senior Notes are
exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes of a
different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder surrendering the
same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be exchanged at the
office or agency of the Company.

      No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

      This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the state of New York.

17
 
                                  ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common               UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                             Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                             __________________________
                                             (State)
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of
         survivorship and not as
         tenants in common

                   Additional abbreviations may also be used
                         though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated: ______________                        ___________________________________

                                             ___________________________________
                                             NOTICE: The signature to this
                                             assignment must correspond with the
                                             name as written upon the face of
                                             the within instrument in every
                                             particular without alteration or
                                             enlargement, or any change
                                             whatever.

18
 
                                   EXHIBIT B

                         CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                                 BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.,
                                                 as Trustee

                                                 By: ___________________________
                                                     Authorized Officer

19

</EX-4.4>

<EX-10.1>
 4
 y48170exv10w1.txt
 EX-10.1: FORM OF AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT

EXHIBIT 10.1

AMENDED AND RESTATED
                        EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT

DATED NOVEMBER 30, 2001

METLIFE, INC.

AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and ________________ (the "Executive"), dated as of
this 30th day of November, 2001.

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Company or an Affiliate has employed the Executive in an
officer position and has determined that the Executive holds a critical position
with the Company or an Affiliate;

         WHEREAS, the Company believes that, in the event it is confronted with
a situation that could result in a change in ownership or control of the
Company, continuity of management will be essential to its ability to evaluate
and respond to such situation in the best interests of its shareholders;

         WHEREAS, the Company understands that any such situation will present
significant concerns for the Executive with respect to the Executive's financial
and job security;

         WHEREAS, the Company desires to assure itself or its Affiliate of the
Executive's services during the period in which it is confronting such a
situation, and to provide the Executive certain financial assurances to enable
the Executive to perform the responsibilities of the Executive's position
without undue distraction and to exercise judgment without bias due to personal
circumstances;

         WHEREAS, to achieve these objectives, the Company and the Executive
desire to enter into an agreement providing the Company and the Executive with
certain rights and obligations upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as so
defined);

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants
herein contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the Company and the
Executive as follows:

         1. Operation of Agreement. (a) Term. The initial term of this Agreement
shall commence on the date hereof and continue until the third anniversary of
the date hereof. Thereafter, this Agreement will automatically renew for
successive and consecutive additional three year periods following the end of
its initial term and any extended term, unless the Company or the Executive
gives the other party written notice at least 180 days prior to the date the
term hereof would otherwise renew that it or the Executive does not want the
term to be so extended; provided, however, that, the Company may not deliver a
notice of nonrenewal after a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2(a)
hereof). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the

term of this Agreement shall in all events expire (regardless of when the term
would otherwise have expired) on the third anniversary of a Change of Control.

         (b) Effective Date. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1(a)
hereof, this Agreement shall govern the terms and conditions of the Executive's
employment and the benefits and compensation to be provided to the Executive
commencing on the date on which a Change of Control occurs (the "Effective
Date") and ending on the date the term of this Agreement otherwise expires. If
the Executive is not employed by the Company or an Affiliate on the Effective
Date, this Agreement shall be void and without effect and shall neither
constitute a contract of employment or a guarantee of employment for any period
of time or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to change
the terms and conditions of the Executive's employment or terminate the
Executive's employment.

         2. Definitions. (a) Change of Control. For the purposes of this
Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:

                  (i) any Person acquires "beneficial ownership" (within the
         meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
         amended (the "Exchange Act")), directly or indirectly, of securities of
         the Company representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of
         the Company's securities;

                  (ii) within any 24-month period, the persons who were
         directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the
         "Incumbent Directors") shall cease to constitute at least a majority of
         the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") or the board of
         directors of any successor to the Company; provided, however, that any
         director elected or nominated for election to the Board by a majority
         of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be
         an Incumbent Director for purposes of this subclause 2(a)(ii);

                  (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger,
         consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of
         all or substantially all of the assets of the Company which is
         consummated (a "Corporate Event"), and immediately following the
         consummation of which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior
         to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority
         of the Voting Power of (x) in the case of a merger or consolidation,
         the surviving or resulting corporation, (y) in the case of a share
         exchange, the acquiring corporation or (z) in the case of a division or
         a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or
         acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant
         Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the
         Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

                  (iv) any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a
         Change of Control.

2

(b) Person. For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,
"Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the
Exchange Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall
include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);
provided, however, that "Person" shall not include (x) the Company or any
Affiliate, (y) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would
otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control
the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (z) any employee benefit plan
(including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Company or any
Affiliate.

         (c) Voting Power. "Voting Power" shall mean such number of Voting
Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could
be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and "Voting Securities"
shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual
election of directors of a company.

         (d) Affiliate. An "Affiliate" shall mean any corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Company.

         3. Employment Period. Subject to Section 6 hereof, the Company agrees
to continue the Executive in its employ or the employ of an Affiliate, and the
Executive agrees to remain in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate, for the
period (the "Employment Period") commencing on the Effective Date and ending on
the expiration of the term of this Agreement.

         4. Business Time. During the Employment Period, the Executive agrees to
devote full attention during normal business hours to the business and affairs
of the Company and Affiliates and to use the Executive's best efforts to perform
faithfully and efficiently the responsibilities assigned to the Executive
hereunder, to the extent necessary to discharge such responsibilities, except
for (i) time spent in managing the Executive's personal, financial and legal
affairs and serving on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, in
each case only if and to the extent not substantially interfering with the
performance of such responsibilities, and (ii) periods of vacation and sick
leave to which the Executive is entitled. It is expressly understood and agreed
that the Executive's continuing to serve on any boards and committees on which
the Executive is serving or with which the Executive is otherwise associated
immediately preceding the Effective Date shall not be deemed to interfere with
the performance of the Executive's services to the Company or Affiliates.

         5. Compensation and Location. (a) Base Salary. During the Employment
Period, the Executive shall receive a base salary at a monthly rate at least
equal to the monthly salary paid to the Executive by the Company and any
Affiliate immediately prior to the Effective Date. The base salary shall be
reviewed at least once each year after the Effective Date, and may be increased
(but not decreased) at any time and from time to time by action of the Board or
any committee thereof, or the Board of Directors of an Affiliate or any
committee thereof, or any individual having authority to take such

3

action in accordance with the regular practices of the Company or an Affiliate.
The Executive's base salary, as it may be increased from time to time, shall
hereafter be referred to as the "Base Salary". Neither the Base Salary nor any
increase in the Base Salary after the Effective Date shall serve to limit or
reduce any other obligation of the Company hereunder. During the Employment
Period, the Executive's Base Salary shall be paid no less frequently than
monthly, except as electively deferred by the Executive pursuant to any deferral
programs or arrangements that the Company or an Affiliate may make available to
the Executive.

         (b) Total Incentive Compensation.

                  (i) During the Employment Period, in addition to the Base
         Salary, the Executive shall be afforded the opportunity to (x) receive
         an annual bonus in an amount which provides the Executive with at least
         the same bonus opportunity as other executives of the Company and
         Affiliates of a rank comparable to that of the Executive, and (y)
         participate in all long-term incentive compensation programs for key
         executives, including but not limited to those awards or grants made in
         the form of cash, stock awards, restricted stock, stock options, and
         other forms of long-term incentive compensation ("Long-Term
         Compensation"), at a level that is at least commensurate with the level
         made available from time to time to executives of the Company and
         Affiliates of a rank comparable to that of the Executive.

                  (ii) For each fiscal year that ends during the Employment
         Period, the aggregate of the value of the annual bonus awarded or
         granted to the Executive attributable to that fiscal year (the "Annual
         Bonus") plus the value of the Long-Term Compensation ("Total Incentive
         Compensation") awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to that
         year, shall be no lower than the aggregate value of Total Incentive
         Compensation awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to any of
         the prior three (3) fiscal years.

                  (iii) If any fiscal year commences but does not end during the
         Employment Period, the Executive shall be awarded or granted at least a
         pro-rated Annual Bonus attributable to the portion of the fiscal year
         occurring during the Employment Period, and such amount shall be no
         lower than the same pro-rated portion of the any of the three (3) prior
         Annual Bonuses awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to
         complete fiscal years.

                  (iv) Each Annual Bonus shall be paid as soon as practicable
         following the year for which the amount (or any prorated portion) is
         awarded or granted, unless electively deferred by the Executive
         pursuant to any deferral programs or arrangements that the Company may
         make available to the Executive.

                  (v) For all purposes of determining the value of Total
         Incentive Compensation or any of its components pursuant to this
         Section 5(b), (w) all compensation awarded or granted to the Executive
         (or, with reference to Section 5(b)(i), which the Executive has the
         opportunity to receive) prior to the beginning

4

of the Employment Period shall be valued using the methods as were used
         by the Company or Affiliate (as applicable) in valuing that
         compensation for purposes of communicating that annual Total Incentive
         Compensation to the Executive in writing; (x) all compensation awarded
         or granted to the Executive (or, with reference to Section 5(b)(i),
         which the Executive has the opportunity to receive) during the
         Employment Period shall be valued using the same methods as were used
         by the Company or Affiliate (as applicable) in valuing compensation for
         purposes of communicating annual Total Incentive Compensation to the
         Executive in writing for the final fiscal year that began prior to the
         Employment Period and, should that communication fail to value a
         particular form of compensation that must be valued for purposes of
         this Section 5(b)(x), otherwise using such methods as were presented or
         produced by the Board or the committee thereof charged with
         responsibility for executive compensation in writing in valuing the
         executive compensation programs of enterprises competitive to the
         Company or any Affiliates for the final fiscal year that began prior to
         the Employment Period; (y) with regard to fiscal years or portions
         thereof during to the Employment Period, only to the extent those
         awards or grants provided to the Executive within that fiscal year or
         in the first quarter of the following fiscal year free of Company or
         Affiliate discretion to reduce the amount or value of the award or
         grant shall such awards or grants be attributable to fiscal years or
         portions thereof; and (z) notwithstanding any other subclause of this
         Section 5(b)(v), with regard to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
         Long-Term Performance Compensation Plan, opportunities set shall be
         considered to constitute awards or grants and such opportunities set
         within four months after the end of the fiscal year shall be attributed
         to the prior fiscal year.

         (c) Benefit Plans. During the Employment Period, the Executive (and, to
the extent applicable, the Executive's dependents) shall be entitled to
participate in or be covered under all pension, retirement, deferred
compensation, savings, medical, dental, health, disability, group life,
accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs of the Company
or Affiliate, whichever is applicable, at the level made available from time to
time to other similarly situated officers.

         (d) Expenses. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be
entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by
the Executive in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Company or
Affiliate, whichever is applicable, as in effect from time to time with respect
to expenses incurred by other similarly situated officers.

         (e) Vacation and Fringe Benefits. During the Employment Period, the
Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation and fringe benefits at a level that
is commensurate with the paid vacation and fringe benefits available from time
to time to other similarly situated officers.

         (f) Indemnification. During and after the Employment Period, the
Company (if the Executive is an officer or employee of the Company at the time
of the events giving rise to the need for indemnity) and/or each Affiliate of
which the Executive is an

5

officer or employee at the time of the events giving rise to the need for
indemnity, shall indemnify the Executive and hold the Executive harmless from
and against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable
expenses, including attorneys' fees, on the same terms and conditions applicable
from time to time with respect to the indemnification of its other senior
officers of comparable rank.

         (g) Location. During the Employment Period, the Executive's services
shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately
preceding the Effective Date or at any other office or location not more than 50
miles from such pre-Effective Date, except for travel reasonably required in the
performance of the Executive's responsibilities.

         6. Termination. (a) Death, Disability or Retirement. Subject to the
provisions of Section 1 and Section 7 hereof, this Agreement shall terminate
automatically upon the Executive's death, termination due to "Disability" (as
defined below) or voluntary retirement under any of the Company's (or
Affiliate's, as applicable) retirement plans as in effect from time to time. For
purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the Executive's inability to
perform the duties of the Executive's position, as determined in accordance with
the policies and procedures applicable with respect to the Company's (or
Affiliate's, as applicable) long-term disability plan, as in effect immediately
prior to the Effective Date; provided, however, that the Executive's employment
may not be terminated for Disability hereunder unless the Executive has
requested that the Executive be considered for, and has qualified to receive,
long-term disability benefits under such plan and that such termination is
consistent with law.

         (b) Voluntary Termination. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement
to the contrary, the Executive may voluntarily terminate employment during the
Employment Period for any reason (including early retirement under the terms of
any of the Company's (or Affiliate's, as applicable) retirement plans as in
effect from time to time), upon not less than 60 days' written notice to the
Company, provided that any termination by the Executive pursuant to Section 6(d)
hereof on account of Good Reason (as defined therein) shall not be treated as a
voluntary termination under this Section 6(b).

         (c) Cause. The Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) may terminate the
Executive's employment for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means
(i) the Executive's conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony; (ii) an
act of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Executive's part which results or
is intended to result in material damage to the Company's business or
reputation; or (iii) repeated material violations by the Executive of the
Executive's obligations under Section 4 hereof, which violations are
demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's part.

         (d) Good Reason. After the Effective Date, the Executive may terminate
the Executive's employment at any time for Good Reason. For purposes of this
Agreement, "Good Reason" means the occurrence of any of the following, without
the express written consent of the Executive, after the Effective Date:

6

(i) any failure by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable)
         to comply with any of the provisions of Section 5 hereof, other than an
         insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly
         after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;

                  (ii) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and
         agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor or to cause an
         Affiliate, as applicable, to comply with the terms of this Agreement as
         contemplated by Section 12(b) hereof.

In no event shall the mere occurrence of a Change of Control, absent any further
impact on the Executive, be deemed to constitute Good Reason.

         (e) Notice of Termination. Any termination during the Employment Period
by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) for Cause or by the Executive for
Good Reason shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party
hereto given in accordance with Section 13(e) hereof. For purposes of this
Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice given, (i) in the
case of a termination for Cause, within 10 business days of the Company's having
actual knowledge of the events giving rise to such termination or (ii) in the
case of a termination for Good Reason, within 120 days of the Executive's having
actual knowledge of the events giving rise to such termination. Any such Notice
of Termination shall (i) indicate the specific termination provision in this
Agreement relied upon, (ii) set forth in reasonable detail the facts and
circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's
employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) if the termination date
is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specify the termination date
of this Agreement (which date shall be not more than 15 days after the giving of
such notice). The failure by the Executive to set forth in the Notice of
Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good
Reason shall not waive any right of the Executive hereunder or preclude the
Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's
rights hereunder.

         (f) Date of Termination. For the purpose of this Agreement, the term
"Date of Termination" means (i) in the case of a termination for which a Notice
of Termination is required, the date of receipt of such Notice of Termination
or, if later, the date specified therein, as the case may be, and (ii) in all
other cases, the actual date on which the Executive's employment terminates
during the Employment Period.

         (g) Transfer of Employment. For purposes of this Agreement, in no event
shall the mere transfer of employment from the Company or an Affiliate to the
Company or an Affiliate, absent any further impact on the Executive, be deemed
to constitute a termination of employment or Good Reason, notwithstanding any
technical termination of employment in connection with such a transfer.

         7. Obligations of the Company upon Termination. (a) Death or
Disability. If the Executive's employment is terminated during the Employment
Period by reason of the Executive's death or Disability, this Agreement shall
terminate without further

7

obligations to the Executive or the Executive's legal representatives under this
Agreement other than those obligations accrued hereunder at the Date of
Termination, and the Company shall pay to the Executive (or the Executive's
beneficiary or estate), at the times determined below, (i) the Executive's full
Base Salary through the Date of Termination (the "Earned Salary"), (ii) any
vested amounts or benefits owing to the Executive under or in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the Company's and Affiliates' otherwise applicable
employee benefit plans and programs and any accrued vacation pay not yet paid by
the Company or Affiliate (the "Accrued Obligations"), and (iii) any other
benefits payable due to the Executive's death or Disability under the Company's
and Affiliates' plans, policies or programs (the "Additional Benefits"). Any
Earned Salary shall be paid in cash in a single lump sum as soon as practicable,
but in no event more than 30 days (or at such earlier date required by law),
following the Date of Termination. Accrued Obligations and Additional Benefits
shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable plan, program or
arrangement.

         (b) Cause and Voluntary Termination. If, during the Employment Period,
the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause or voluntarily
terminated by the Executive (other than on account of Good Reason), the Company
shall pay the Executive (i) the Earned Salary in cash in a single lump sum as
soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30 days, following the Date of
Termination, and (ii) the Accrued Obligations in accordance with the terms of
the applicable plan, program or arrangement.

         (c) Termination by the Company or an Affiliate other than for Cause and
Termination by the Executive for Good Reason. The terms of this Section 7(c)
shall apply if and only if (x) the Company or an Affiliate terminates the
Executive's employment other than for Cause during the Employment Period or (y)
the Executive terminates employment at any time during the Employment Period for
Good Reason.

                  (i) Lump Sum Payments. The Company shall pay to the Executive,
         at the times determined below, the following amounts:

                  (A)      the Executive's Earned Salary;

                  (B)      a cash amount (the "Severance Amount") equal to three
                           times the sum of

                           (1)      the Executive's annual rate of Base Salary
                                    as then in effect;

                           (2)      the average of the annual bonuses awarded or
                                    granted to the Executive under the Annual
                                    Variable Incentive Plan (or any successor
                                    plan thereto), and any other Annual Bonus,
                                    for the each of the three fiscal years of
                                    the Company (or, if less, the number of
                                    prior fiscal years during which Executive
                                    was an employee of the Company or an
                                    Affiliate) ended immediately prior to the
                                    Effective Date for which an annual bonus
                                    amount had been determined by the Board (or
                                    any committee thereof) prior to the
                                    Effective

8

Date. If the Executive was employed by the
                                    Company or Affiliates (taken as a whole) for
                                    only a portion of any fiscal year included
                                    in the period for which the average referred
                                    to in the immediately preceding sentence is
                                    determined and the bonus awarded or granted
                                    for such fiscal year took into account such
                                    partial period of employment, such bonus for
                                    such fiscal year shall be annualized for
                                    purposes of calculating such average; and

                           (3)      if the Effective Date is on or prior to
                                    December 31, 2003, the average of the
                                    long-term incentive compensation amounts
                                    awarded or granted to the Executive with
                                    respect to each of the last three
                                    performance periods (or, if the Executive
                                    participated in the long-term compensation
                                    program in respect to a lesser number of
                                    such performance periods, such lesser
                                    number) ended prior to the Effective Date
                                    for which the amount awarded or granted had
                                    been determined by the Board (or any
                                    committee thereof) prior to the Effective
                                    Date; provided, however, that, the amount
                                    determined under this subclause (3) shall be
                                    reduced (but not below zero) by the
                                    "Determined Value" (as defined below) of any
                                    vested stock options, restricted stock or
                                    similar equity-based award or grant relating
                                    to the Company's common equity on the
                                    earlier to occur of the Executive's Date of
                                    Termination or the date on which a Change of
                                    Control occurs. For purposes of this
                                    Agreement, Determined Value shall mean the
                                    excess of the "Equity Value" over the price,
                                    if any, payable by the Executive in respect
                                    of such stock option or other award and
                                    Equity Value shall be determined to be (x)
                                    in the case of a Change of Control occurring
                                    by reason of a merger, recapitalization or
                                    similar transaction or as a result of a
                                    tender offer, the value received by the
                                    Company's equity holders in such transaction
                                    or the price paid in such tender offer (with
                                    the value of any non-cash consideration to
                                    be determined in good faith by the
                                    Compensation Committee of the Board as
                                    constituted immediately prior to the
                                    Effective Date) and (y) in the case of any
                                    other Change of Control or where the date as
                                    of which such Determined Value is measured
                                    is the Executive's Date of Termination, the
                                    average of the high and low reported sales
                                    prices of such equity on the principal
                                    securities market on which such equity is
                                    traded on the relevant date; and

                  (C)      the Accrued Obligations.

9

The Earned Salary and Severance Amount shall be paid in cash in a
         single lump sum as soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30
         days (or at such earlier date required by law), following the Date of
         Termination. Accrued Obligations shall be paid in accordance with the
         terms of the applicable plan, program or arrangement.

                  (ii) Continuation of Benefits and Additional Pension Credit.
         The Executive (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive's
         dependents) shall be entitled, after the Date of Termination until the
         third anniversary of the Date of Termination (the "End Date"), to
         continue participation in all of the Company's (or Affiliate's, as
         applicable) employee and executive plans providing medical, dental and
         long-term disability benefits (collectively, the "Continuing Benefit
         Plans"); provided, however, that the participation by the Executive
         (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive's dependents) in any
         Continuing Benefit Plan shall cease on the date, if any, prior to the
         End Date on which the Executive becomes eligible for comparable
         benefits under a similar plan, policy or program of a subsequent
         employer ("Prior Date"). The Executive's participation in the
         Continuing Benefit Plans will be on the same terms and conditions that
         would have applied had the Executive continued to be employed by the
         Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) through the End Date or the Prior
         Date. To the extent any such benefits cannot be provided under the
         terms of the applicable plan, policy or program, the Company shall
         provide a comparable benefit under another plan or from the Company's
         general assets. In addition, the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable)
         shall grant the Executive service credit, for purposes of all pension
         and defined benefit plans and arrangements of the Company and any
         Affiliate in which the Executive participates, through the earlier of
         (x) the third anniversary of the effective date of the Notice of
         Termination, or (y) the sixty-fifth birthday of the Executive, such
         that when the Executive's pension or defined benefit is determined such
         credited service will be taken into account.

         (d) Discharge of the Company's Obligations. Except as expressly
provided in the last sentence of this Section 7(d) hereof, the amounts payable
to the Executive pursuant to this Section 7 following termination of the
Executive's employment shall be in full and complete satisfaction of the
Executive's rights under this Agreement and any other claims the Executive may
have in respect of the Executive's employment by the Company or any of its
Affiliates. Such amounts shall constitute liquidated damages with respect to any
and all such rights and claims and, upon the Executive's receipt of such
amounts, the Company shall be released and discharged from any and all liability
to the Executive in connection with this Agreement or otherwise in connection
with the Executive's employment with the Company and its Affiliates.

         (e) Modification of Payments by the Company.

                  (i) Application of Section 7(e) Hereof. In the event that any
         amount or benefit paid or distributed to the Executive pursuant to this
         Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits otherwise paid
         or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any Affiliate under
         any other plan, agreement, or

10

arrangement that would be taken into account for purposes of
         determining if an "excess parachute payment" as defined in Section 280G
         of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, has been made
         (collectively, the "Covered Payments"), would be an "excess parachute
         payment" as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of
         1986, as amended (the "Code"), and would thereby subject the Executive
         to the tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed under Section 4999 of the Code
         (or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed), the Company shall
         pay to the Executive an additional amount (the "Tax Reimbursement
         Payment") such that the net amount retained by the Executive with
         respect to such Covered Payments, after deduction of any Excise Tax on
         the Covered Payments and any Federal, state and local (including
         foreign) income tax and Excise Tax on the Tax Reimbursement Payment
         provided for by this Section 7(e), but before deduction for any
         Federal, state or local (including foreign) income or employment tax
         withholding on such Covered Payments, shall be equal to the aggregate
         value of the Covered Payments.

                  (ii) Calculation of Benefits. Promptly after delivery of any
         Notice of Termination, the Company shall notify the Executive of the
         aggregate present value of all Covered Payments to which the Executive
         would be entitled under this Agreement and any other plan, program or
         arrangement as of the projected Date of Termination, together with the
         projected maximum payments, determined as of such projected Date of
         Termination that could be paid without the Executive being subject to
         the Excise Tax.

                  (iii) Application of Section 280G. For purposes of determining
         whether any of the Covered Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax
         and the amount of such Excise Tax,

                  (A)      such Covered Payments will be treated as "parachute
                           payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the
                           Code, and all "parachute payments" in excess of the
                           "base amount" (as defined under Section 280G(b)(3) of
                           the Code) shall be treated as subject to the Excise
                           Tax, unless, and except to the extent that, in the
                           good faith judgment of the Company's independent
                           certified public accountants appointed prior to the
                           Effective Date or tax counsel selected by such
                           Accountants (the "Accountants"), the Company has a
                           reasonable basis to conclude that any amount or
                           benefit paid or distributed to the Executive pursuant
                           to this Agreement, or any amounts or benefits
                           otherwise paid or distributed to the Executive by the
                           Company or any Affiliate under any other plan,
                           agreement, or arrangement (in whole or in part),
                           either do not constitute "parachute payments" or
                           represent reasonable compensation for personal
                           services actually rendered (within the meaning of
                           Section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the
                           portion of the "base amount allocable to such Covered
                           Payments," or such "parachute payments" are otherwise
                           not subject to such Excise Tax, and

11

(B)      the value of any non-cash benefits or any deferred
                           payment or benefit shall be determined by the
                           Accountants in accordance with the principles of
                           Section 280G of the Code.

                  (iv) Adjustments in Respect of the Payment Cap. If the
         Executive receives reduced payments and benefits under this Section
         7(e) (or this Section 7(e) is determined not to be applicable to the
         Executive because the Accountants conclude that Executive is not
         subject to any Excise Tax) and it is established pursuant to a final
         determination of a court or an Internal Revenue Service proceeding (a
         "Final Determination") that, notwithstanding the good faith of the
         Executive and the Company in applying the terms of this Agreement, the
         aggregate "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of
         the Code paid to the Executive or for the Executive's benefit are in an
         amount that would result in the Executive being subject an Excise Tax,
         then the Accountants shall determine whether the Executive should have
         received the Tax Reimbursement Payment described in Section 7(e)(i). If
         the Tax Reimbursement Payment would have been due, the Accountants
         shall determine the amount of any interest and penalties that may be
         imposed on the Executive by reason having failed to have timely paid
         any Excise Tax (the "Penalty Amount"), and the amount of the Tax
         Reimbursement Payment due, treating the Penalty Amount as a Covered
         Payment. In the event a Tax Reimbursement Payment is due, the Company
         shall promptly (but in no event later than ten (10) business days after
         the Accountants have determined and informed the Company of the amounts
         due hereunder) pay the Executive such Tax Reimbursement Payment (as
         calculated in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence) and
         the Penalty Amount. For greater clarity, if the Executive receives
         increased payments and benefits under this Section 7(e)(i), then this
         Section 7(e)(iv) shall not apply.

         (f) Notwithstanding anything else in this Section 7 to the contrary,
nothing in this Section 7 shall be construed to release the Company from (or to
otherwise waive or modify) the Company's obligation to indemnify the Executive
pursuant to Section 5(f) hereof.

         8. Non-exclusivity of Rights. Except as expressly provided herein,
nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or
future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plan or program
provided by the Company or any Affiliate and for which the Executive may
qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise prejudice such rights as
the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any
Affiliate, including employment agreements or stock option agreements. Amounts
which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to
receive under any plan or program of the Company or any Affiliate at or
subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be paid in accordance with such plan
or program.

         9. No Offset; Deferrals. The Company's obligation to make the payments
provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations
hereunder shall not be diminished or otherwise affected by any circumstances,
including, but not limited

12

to, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the
Company may have against the Executive or others whether by reason of the
subsequent employment of the Executive or otherwise. For purposes of this
Agreement, except for Section 7(e), the value of an amount or property awarded,
granted, or paid to the Executive shall be determined notwithstanding any
elective deferrals of payment.

         10. Legal Fees and Expenses. If the Executive asserts any claim in any
contest (whether initiated by the Executive or by the Company) as to the
validity, enforceability or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement,
the Company shall pay the Executive's legal expenses (or cause such expenses to
be paid) including, but not limited to, the Executive's reasonable attorney's
fees, on a quarterly basis, upon presentation of proof of such expenses in a
form acceptable to the Company, provided that the Executive shall reimburse the
Company for such amounts, plus simple interest thereon at the 90-day United
States Treasury Bill rate as in effect from time to time, compounded annually,
if the Executive shall not prevail, in whole or in part, as to at least one
material issue as to the validity, enforceability or interpretation of any
provision of this Agreement.

         11. Surviving Agreements. The Agreement to Protect Corporate Property
previously executed by the Executive, any written stock option agreement into
which the Executive entered with the Company, and any Compensation Protection
Agreement into which the Executive entered with the Company are incorporated
herein and made a part hereof. The Executive and the Company hereby reaffirm
their respective commitments under the agreements to which reference is made in
this Section 11, and again agree to be bound by each of the covenants contained
therein for the benefit of the Company and Affiliates in consideration of the
benefits made available to the Executive hereby.

         12. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and,
without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the
Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's
legal representatives.

         (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon
the Company and its successors. The Company shall cause each Affiliate, as
applicable, to comply with the terms of this Agreement. The Company shall
require any successor to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets
of the Company, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation,
acquisition of stock, or otherwise, expressly to assume and agree to perform
this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would
have been required to perform if no such succession had taken place.

         13. Miscellaneous. (a) Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, applied
without reference to principles of conflict of laws.

         (b) Arbitration. Except to the extent provided in Section 11(c) hereof,
any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement
shall be

13

resolved by binding arbitration. The arbitration shall be held in New York City
and except to the extent inconsistent with this Agreement, shall be conducted in
accordance with the Expedited Employment Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association in effect at the time of the arbitration (or such other
rules as the parties may agree to in writing), and otherwise in accordance with
principles which would be applied by a court of law or equity; provided for
greater clarity, however, that in no event shall the arbitrator(s) be bound to
follow the rules of evidence, discovery, or procedure that would applied by a
court of law or equity. The arbitrator shall be acceptable to both the Company
and the Executive. If the parties cannot agree on an acceptable arbitrator, the
dispute shall be heard by a panel of three arbitrators, one appointed by each of
the parties and the third appointed by the other two arbitrators.

         (c) Amendments. This Agreement may not be amended or modified other
than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective
successors and legal representatives.

         (d) Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties hereto with respect to the matters referred to herein, and
completely supersedes and replaces any prior Employment Continuation Agreement
(including any such amended and restated agreement) between the Executive and
the Company and/or an Affiliate. No other agreement relating to the terms of the
Executive's employment by the Company, oral or otherwise, shall be binding
between the parties unless it is in writing and signed by the party against whom
enforcement is sought. There are no promises, representations, inducements or
statements between the parties other than those that are expressly contained
herein. The Executive acknowledges entering into this Agreement of the
Executive's own free will and accord, and with no duress, that the Executive has
read this Agreement and understands it and its legal consequences.

         (e) Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be given by hand-delivery to the other party or by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as
follows:

         If to the Executive:      at the home address of the Executive noted
                                   on the records of the Company

         If to the Company:        MetLife, Inc.
                                   One Madison Avenue
                                   New York, New York 10010
                                   Attn.:  Secretary

or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in
writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective
when actually received by the addressee.

         (f) Tax Withholding. The Company shall withhold from any amounts
payable under this Agreement such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be
required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.

14

(g) Severability; Reformation. In the event that one or more of the
provisions of this Agreement shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in
any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby.

         (h) Waiver. Waiver by any party hereto of any breach or default by the
other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver
of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach
or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied
from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by
either party hereto to assert its or the Executive's rights hereunder on any
occasion or series of occasions.

         (i) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute
one and the same instrument.

(THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)

15

(j) Captions. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the
provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.

                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the
Executive's hand and the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its
name on its behalf.

                                    METLIFE, INC.

By:
                                       ----------------------------------------

                                    Title:
                                          -------------------------------------

WITNESSED:

- --------------------

EXECUTIVE:

-------------------------

WITNESSED:

- --------------------

16

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.3>
 5
 y48170exv10w3.txt
 EX-10.3: AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT WITH WEBER

EXHIBIT 10.3

LISA M. WEBER

AMENDED AND RESTATED
                        EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT

DATED NOVEMBER 30, 2001

METLIFE, INC.

AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION AGREEMENT

THIS AMENDED AND RESTATED AGREEMENT between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and Lisa M. Weber (the "Executive"), dated as of
this 30th day of November, 2001.

WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Company or an Affiliate has employed the Executive in an
officer position and has determined that the Executive holds a critical position
with the Company or an Affiliate;

         WHEREAS, the Company believes that, in the event it is confronted with
a situation that could result in a change in ownership or control of the
Company, continuity of management will be essential to its ability to evaluate
and respond to such situation in the best interests of its shareholders;

         WHEREAS, the Company understands that any such situation will present
significant concerns for the Executive with respect to the Executive's financial
and job security;

         WHEREAS, the Company desires to assure itself or its Affiliate of the
Executive's services during the period in which it is confronting such a
situation, and to provide the Executive certain financial assurances to enable
the Executive to perform the responsibilities of the Executive's position
without undue distraction and to exercise judgment without bias due to personal
circumstances;

         WHEREAS, to achieve these objectives, the Company and the Executive
desire to enter into an agreement providing the Company and the Executive with
certain rights and obligations upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (as so
defined);

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants
herein contained, it is hereby agreed by and between the Company and the
Executive as follows:

         1. Operation of Agreement. (a) Term. The initial term of this Agreement
shall commence on the date hereof and continue until the third anniversary of
the date hereof. Thereafter, this Agreement will automatically renew for
successive and consecutive additional three year periods following the end of
its initial term and any extended term, unless the Company or the Executive
gives the other party written notice at least 180 days prior to the date the
term hereof would otherwise renew that it or the Executive does not want the
term to be so extended; provided, however, that, the Company may not deliver a
notice of nonrenewal after a Change of Control (as defined in Section 2(a)
hereof). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the

term of this Agreement shall in all events expire (regardless of when the term
would otherwise have expired) on the third anniversary of a Change of Control.

         (b) Effective Date. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1(a)
hereof, this Agreement shall govern the terms and conditions of the Executive's
employment and the benefits and compensation to be provided to the Executive
commencing on the date on which a Change of Control occurs (the "Effective
Date") and ending on the date the term of this Agreement otherwise expires. If
the Executive is not employed by the Company or an Affiliate on the Effective
Date, this Agreement shall be void and without effect and shall neither
constitute a contract of employment or a guarantee of employment for any period
of time or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to change
the terms and conditions of the Executive's employment or terminate the
Executive's employment.

         2. Definitions. (a) Change of Control. For the purposes of this
Agreement, a "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:

                  (i) any Person acquires "beneficial ownership" (within the
         meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
         amended (the "Exchange Act")), directly or indirectly, of securities of
         the Company representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of
         the Company's securities;

                  (ii) within any 24-month period, the persons who were
         directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the
         "Incumbent Directors") shall cease to constitute at least a majority of
         the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") or the board of
         directors of any successor to the Company; provided, however, that any
         director elected or nominated for election to the Board by a majority
         of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be
         an Incumbent Director for purposes of this subclause 2(a)(ii);

                  (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger,
         consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other disposition of
         all or substantially all of the assets of the Company which is
         consummated (a "Corporate Event"), and immediately following the
         consummation of which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior
         to such Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority
         of the Voting Power of (x) in the case of a merger or consolidation,
         the surviving or resulting corporation, (y) in the case of a share
         exchange, the acquiring corporation or (z) in the case of a division or
         a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or
         acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant
         Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the
         Company immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

                  (iv) any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a
         Change of Control.

2

(b) Person. For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,
"Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the
Exchange Act, as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall
include any group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);
provided, however, that "Person" shall not include (x) the Company or any
Affiliate, (y) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would
otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control
the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (z) any employee benefit plan
(including an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Company or any
Affiliate.

         (c) Voting Power. "Voting Power" shall mean such number of Voting
Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which could
be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and "Voting Securities"
shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual
election of directors of a company.

         (d) Affiliate. An "Affiliate" shall mean any corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or indirectly
through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Company.

         3. Employment Period. Subject to Section 6 hereof, the Company agrees
to continue the Executive in its employ or the employ of an Affiliate, and the
Executive agrees to remain in the employ of the Company or an Affiliate, for the
period (the "Employment Period") commencing on the Effective Date and ending on
the expiration of the term of this Agreement.

         4. Business Time. During the Employment Period, the Executive agrees to
devote full attention during normal business hours to the business and affairs
of the Company and Affiliates and to use the Executive's best efforts to perform
faithfully and efficiently the responsibilities assigned to the Executive
hereunder, to the extent necessary to discharge such responsibilities, except
for (i) time spent in managing the Executive's personal, financial and legal
affairs and serving on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, in
each case only if and to the extent not substantially interfering with the
performance of such responsibilities, and (ii) periods of vacation and sick
leave to which the Executive is entitled. It is expressly understood and agreed
that the Executive's continuing to serve on any boards and committees on which
the Executive is serving or with which the Executive is otherwise associated
immediately preceding the Effective Date shall not be deemed to interfere with
the performance of the Executive's services to the Company or Affiliates.

         5. Compensation and Location. (a) Base Salary. During the Employment
Period, the Executive shall receive a base salary at a monthly rate at least
equal to the monthly salary paid to the Executive by the Company and any
Affiliate immediately prior to the Effective Date. The base salary shall be
reviewed at least once each year after the Effective Date, and may be increased
(but not decreased) at any time and from time to time by action of the Board or
any committee thereof, or the Board of Directors of an Affiliate or any
committee thereof, or any individual having authority to take such

3

action in accordance with the regular practices of the Company or an Affiliate.
The Executive's base salary, as it may be increased from time to time, shall
hereafter be referred to as the "Base Salary". Neither the Base Salary nor any
increase in the Base Salary after the Effective Date shall serve to limit or
reduce any other obligation of the Company hereunder. During the Employment
Period, the Executive's Base Salary shall be paid no less frequently than
monthly, except as electively deferred by the Executive pursuant to any deferral
programs or arrangements that the Company or an Affiliate may make available to
the Executive.

         (b) Total Incentive Compensation.

                  (i) During the Employment Period, in addition to the Base
         Salary, the Executive shall be afforded the opportunity to (x) receive
         an annual bonus in an amount which provides the Executive with at least
         the same bonus opportunity as other executives of the Company and
         Affiliates of a rank comparable to that of the Executive, and (y)
         participate in all long-term incentive compensation programs for key
         executives, including but not limited to those awards or grants made in
         the form of cash, stock awards, restricted stock, stock options, and
         other forms of long-term incentive compensation ("Long-Term
         Compensation"), at a level that is at least commensurate with the level
         made available from time to time to executives of the Company and
         Affiliates of a rank comparable to that of the Executive.

                  (ii) For each fiscal year that ends during the Employment
         Period, the aggregate of the value of the annual bonus awarded or
         granted to the Executive attributable to that fiscal year (the "Annual
         Bonus") plus the value of the Long-Term Compensation ("Total Incentive
         Compensation") awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to that
         year, shall be no lower than the aggregate value of Total Incentive
         Compensation awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to any of
         the prior three (3) fiscal years.

                  (iii) If any fiscal year commences but does not end during the
         Employment Period, the Executive shall be awarded or granted at least a
         pro-rated Annual Bonus attributable to the portion of the fiscal year
         occurring during the Employment Period, and such amount shall be no
         lower than the same pro-rated portion of the any of the three (3) prior
         Annual Bonuses awarded or granted to the Executive attributable to
         complete fiscal years.

                  (iv) Each Annual Bonus shall be paid as soon as practicable
         following the year for which the amount (or any prorated portion) is
         awarded or granted, unless electively deferred by the Executive
         pursuant to any deferral programs or arrangements that the Company may
         make available to the Executive.

                  (v) For all purposes of determining the value of Total
         Incentive Compensation or any of its components pursuant to this
         Section 5(b), (w) all compensation awarded or granted to the Executive
         (or, with reference to Section 5(b)(i), which the Executive has the
         opportunity to receive) prior to the beginning

4

of the Employment Period shall be valued using the methods as were used
         by the Company or Affiliate (as applicable) in valuing that
         compensation for purposes of communicating that annual Total Incentive
         Compensation to the Executive in writing; (x) all compensation awarded
         or granted to the Executive (or, with reference to Section 5(b)(i),
         which the Executive has the opportunity to receive) during the
         Employment Period shall be valued using the same methods as were used
         by the Company or Affiliate (as applicable) in valuing compensation for
         purposes of communicating annual Total Incentive Compensation to the
         Executive in writing for the final fiscal year that began prior to the
         Employment Period and, should that communication fail to value a
         particular form of compensation that must be valued for purposes of
         this Section 5(b)(x), otherwise using such methods as were presented or
         produced by the Board or the committee thereof charged with
         responsibility for executive compensation in writing in valuing the
         executive compensation programs of enterprises competitive to the
         Company or any Affiliates for the final fiscal year that began prior to
         the Employment Period; (y) with regard to fiscal years or portions
         thereof during to the Employment Period, only to the extent those
         awards or grants provided to the Executive within that fiscal year or
         in the first quarter of the following fiscal year free of Company or
         Affiliate discretion to reduce the amount or value of the award or
         grant shall such awards or grants be attributable to fiscal years or
         portions thereof; and (z) notwithstanding any other subclause of this
         Section 5(b)(v), with regard to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
         Long-Term Performance Compensation Plan, opportunities set shall be
         considered to constitute awards or grants and such opportunities set
         within four months after the end of the fiscal year shall be attributed
         to the prior fiscal year.

         (c) Benefit Plans. During the Employment Period, the Executive (and, to
the extent applicable, the Executive's dependents) shall be entitled to
participate in or be covered under all pension, retirement, deferred
compensation, savings, medical, dental, health, disability, group life,
accidental death and travel accident insurance plans and programs of the Company
or Affiliate, whichever is applicable, at the level made available from time to
time to other similarly situated officers.

         (d) Expenses. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be
entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by
the Executive in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Company or
Affiliate, whichever is applicable, as in effect from time to time with respect
to expenses incurred by other similarly situated officers.

         (e) Vacation and Fringe Benefits. During the Employment Period, the
Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation and fringe benefits at a level that
is commensurate with the paid vacation and fringe benefits available from time
to time to other similarly situated officers.

         (f) Indemnification. During and after the Employment Period, the
Company (if the Executive is an officer or employee of the Company at the time
of the events giving rise to the need for indemnity) and/or each Affiliate of
which the Executive is an

5

officer or employee at the time of the events giving rise to the need for
indemnity, shall indemnify the Executive and hold the Executive harmless from
and against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable
expenses, including attorneys' fees, on the same terms and conditions applicable
from time to time with respect to the indemnification of its other senior
officers of comparable rank.

         (g) Location. During the Employment Period, the Executive's services
shall be performed at the location where the Executive was employed immediately
preceding the Effective Date or at any other office or location not more than 50
miles from such pre-Effective Date, except for travel reasonably required in the
performance of the Executive's responsibilities.

         6. Termination. (a) Death, Disability or Retirement. Subject to the
provisions of Section 1 and Section 7 hereof, this Agreement shall terminate
automatically upon the Executive's death, termination due to "Disability" (as
defined below) or voluntary retirement under any of the Company's (or
Affiliate's, as applicable) retirement plans as in effect from time to time. For
purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the Executive's inability to
perform the duties of the Executive's position, as determined in accordance with
the policies and procedures applicable with respect to the Company's (or
Affiliate's, as applicable) long-term disability plan, as in effect immediately
prior to the Effective Date; provided, however, that the Executive's employment
may not be terminated for Disability hereunder unless the Executive has
requested that the Executive be considered for, and has qualified to receive,
long-term disability benefits under such plan and that such termination is
consistent with law.

         (b) Voluntary Termination. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement
to the contrary, the Executive may voluntarily terminate employment during the
Employment Period for any reason (including early retirement under the terms of
any of the Company's (or Affiliate's, as applicable) retirement plans as in
effect from time to time), upon not less than 60 days' written notice to the
Company, provided that any termination by the Executive pursuant to Section 6(d)
hereof on account of Good Reason (as defined therein) shall not be treated as a
voluntary termination under this Section 6(b).

         (c) Cause. The Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) may terminate the
Executive's employment for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" means
(i) the Executive's conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony; (ii) an
act of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Executive's part which results or
is intended to result in material damage to the Company's business or
reputation; or (iii) repeated material violations by the Executive of the
Executive's obligations under Section 4 hereof, which violations are
demonstrably willful and deliberate on the Executive's part.

         (d) Good Reason. After the Effective Date, the Executive may terminate
the Executive's employment at any time for Good Reason. For purposes of this
Agreement, "Good Reason" means the occurrence of any of the following, without
the express written consent of the Executive, after the Effective Date:

6

(i) any failure by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable)
         to comply with any of the provisions of Section 5 hereof, other than an
         insubstantial or inadvertent failure remedied by the Company promptly
         after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive;

                  (ii) any failure by the Company to obtain the assumption and
         agreement to perform this Agreement by a successor or to cause an
         Affiliate, as applicable, to comply with the terms of this Agreement as
         contemplated by Section 12(b) hereof; or

                  (iii) any failure to make any payment when due under the terms
         of the letter agreement between the Company and the Executive dated as
         of February 4, 1998 (the "Offer Letter").

In no event shall the mere occurrence of a Change of Control, absent any further
impact on the Executive, be deemed to constitute Good Reason.

         (e) Notice of Termination. Any termination during the Employment Period
by the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) for Cause or by the Executive for
Good Reason shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party
hereto given in accordance with Section 13(e) hereof. For purposes of this
Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice given, (i) in the
case of a termination for Cause, within 10 business days of the Company's having
actual knowledge of the events giving rise to such termination or (ii) in the
case of a termination for Good Reason, within 120 days of the Executive's having
actual knowledge of the events giving rise to such termination. Any such Notice
of Termination shall (i) indicate the specific termination provision in this
Agreement relied upon, (ii) set forth in reasonable detail the facts and
circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's
employment under the provision so indicated, and (iii) if the termination date
is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specify the termination date
of this Agreement (which date shall be not more than 15 days after the giving of
such notice). The failure by the Executive to set forth in the Notice of
Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to a showing of Good
Reason shall not waive any right of the Executive hereunder or preclude the
Executive from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's
rights hereunder.

         (f) Date of Termination. For the purpose of this Agreement, the term
"Date of Termination" means (i) in the case of a termination for which a Notice
of Termination is required, the date of receipt of such Notice of Termination
or, if later, the date specified therein, as the case may be, and (ii) in all
other cases, the actual date on which the Executive's employment terminates
during the Employment Period.

         (g) Transfer of Employment. For purposes of this Agreement, in no event
shall the mere transfer of employment from the Company or an Affiliate to the
Company or an Affiliate, absent any further impact on the Executive, be deemed
to constitute a termination of employment or Good Reason, notwithstanding any
technical termination of employment in connection with such a transfer.

7

7. Obligations of the Company upon Termination. (a) Death or
Disability. If the Executive's employment is terminated during the Employment
Period by reason of the Executive's death or Disability, this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations to the Executive or the Executive's legal
representatives under this Agreement other than those obligations accrued
hereunder at the Date of Termination, and the Company shall pay to the Executive
(or the Executive's beneficiary or estate), at the times determined below, (i)
the Executive's full Base Salary through the Date of Termination (the "Earned
Salary"), (ii) any vested amounts or benefits owing to the Executive under or in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Company's and Affiliates'
otherwise applicable employee benefit plans and programs and any accrued
vacation pay not yet paid by the Company or Affiliate (the "Accrued
Obligations"), and (iii) any other benefits payable due to the Executive's death
or Disability under the Company's and Affiliates' plans, policies or programs
(the "Additional Benefits"). Any Earned Salary shall be paid in cash in a single
lump sum as soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30 days (or at such
earlier date required by law), following the Date of Termination. Accrued
Obligations and Additional Benefits shall be paid in accordance with the terms
of the applicable plan, program or arrangement.

         (b) Cause and Voluntary Termination. If, during the Employment Period,
the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause or voluntarily
terminated by the Executive (other than on account of Good Reason), the Company
shall pay the Executive (i) the Earned Salary in cash in a single lump sum as
soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30 days, following the Date of
Termination, and (ii) the Accrued Obligations in accordance with the terms of
the applicable plan, program or arrangement.

         (c) Termination by the Company or an Affiliate other than for Cause and
Termination by the Executive for Good Reason. The terms of this Section 7(c)
shall apply if and only if (x) the Company or an Affiliate terminates the
Executive's employment other than for Cause during the Employment Period or (y)
the Executive terminates employment at any time during the Employment Period for
Good Reason.

                  (i) Lump Sum Payments. The Company shall pay to the Executive,
         at the times determined below, the following amounts:

                  (A)      the Executive's Earned Salary;

                  (B)      a cash amount (the "Severance Amount") equal to three
                           times the sum of

                           (1)      the Executive's annual rate of Base Salary
                                    as then in effect;

                           (2)      the average of the annual bonuses awarded or
                                    granted to the Executive under the Annual
                                    Variable Incentive Plan (or any successor
                                    plan thereto), and any other Annual Bonus,
                                    for the each of the three fiscal years of
                                    the Company (or, if less, the number of
                                    prior fiscal years during which Executive
                                    was an employee of the Company or an

8

Affiliate) ended immediately prior to the
                                    Effective Date for which an annual bonus
                                    amount had been determined by the Board (or
                                    any committee thereof) prior to the
                                    Effective Date. If the Executive was
                                    employed by the Company or Affiliates (taken
                                    as a whole) for only a portion of any fiscal
                                    year included in the period for which the
                                    average referred to in the immediately
                                    preceding sentence is determined and the
                                    bonus awarded or granted for such fiscal
                                    year took into account such partial period
                                    of employment, such bonus for such fiscal
                                    year shall be annualized for purposes of
                                    calculating such average; and

                           (3)      if the Effective Date is on or prior to
                                    December 31, 2003, the average of the
                                    long-term incentive compensation amounts
                                    awarded or granted to the Executive with
                                    respect to each of the last three
                                    performance periods (or, if the Executive
                                    participated in the long-term compensation
                                    program in respect to a lesser number of
                                    such performance periods, such lesser
                                    number) ended prior to the Effective Date
                                    for which the amount awarded or granted had
                                    been determined by the Board (or any
                                    committee thereof) prior to the Effective
                                    Date; provided, however, that, the amount
                                    determined under this subclause (3) shall be
                                    reduced (but not below zero) by the
                                    "Determined Value" (as defined below) of any
                                    vested stock options, restricted stock or
                                    similar equity-based award or grant relating
                                    to the Company's common equity on the
                                    earlier to occur of the Executive's Date of
                                    Termination or the date on which a Change of
                                    Control occurs. For purposes of this
                                    Agreement, Determined Value shall mean the
                                    excess of the "Equity Value" over the price,
                                    if any, payable by the Executive in respect
                                    of such stock option or other award and
                                    Equity Value shall be determined to be (x)
                                    in the case of a Change of Control occurring
                                    by reason of a merger, recapitalization or
                                    similar transaction or as a result of a
                                    tender offer, the value received by the
                                    Company's equity holders in such transaction
                                    or the price paid in such tender offer (with
                                    the value of any non-cash consideration to
                                    be determined in good faith by the
                                    Compensation Committee of the Board as
                                    constituted immediately prior to the
                                    Effective Date) and (y) in the case of any
                                    other Change of Control or where the date as
                                    of which such Determined Value is measured
                                    is the Executive's Date of Termination, the
                                    average of the high and low reported sales
                                    prices of such equity on the principal
                                    securities market on which such equity is
                                    traded on the relevant date; and

9

(C)      the Accrued Obligations.

         The Earned Salary and Severance Amount shall be paid in cash in a
         single lump sum as soon as practicable, but in no event more than 30
         days (or at such earlier date required by law), following the Date of
         Termination. Accrued Obligations shall be paid in accordance with the
         terms of the applicable plan, program or arrangement.

                  (ii) Continuation of Benefits and Additional Pension Credit.
         The Executive (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive's
         dependents) shall be entitled, after the Date of Termination until the
         third anniversary of the Date of Termination (the "End Date"), to
         continue participation in all of the Company's (or Affiliate's, as
         applicable) employee and executive plans providing medical, dental and
         long-term disability benefits (collectively, the "Continuing Benefit
         Plans"); provided, however, that the participation by the Executive
         (and, to the extent applicable, the Executive's dependents) in any
         Continuing Benefit Plan shall cease on the date, if any, prior to the
         End Date on which the Executive becomes eligible for comparable
         benefits under a similar plan, policy or program of a subsequent
         employer ("Prior Date"). The Executive's participation in the
         Continuing Benefit Plans will be on the same terms and conditions that
         would have applied had the Executive continued to be employed by the
         Company (or Affiliate, as applicable) through the End Date or the Prior
         Date. To the extent any such benefits cannot be provided under the
         terms of the applicable plan, policy or program, the Company shall
         provide a comparable benefit under another plan or from the Company's
         general assets. In addition, the Company (or Affiliate, as applicable)
         shall grant the Executive service credit, for purposes of all pension
         and defined benefit plans and arrangements of the Company and any
         Affiliate in which the Executive participates, through the earlier of
         (x) the third anniversary of the effective date of the Notice of
         Termination, or (y) the sixty-fifth birthday of the Executive, such
         that when the Executive's pension or defined benefit is determined such
         credited service will be taken into account.

                  (iv) Offer Letter Deferred Compensation Benefit. In the event
         that, during the Employment Period, the Executive terminates employment
         hereunder for Good Reason or the Company or an Affiliate terminates the
         Executive's employment other than for Cause, the Executive shall be
         vested in the deferred compensation benefit described in the Offer
         Letter and such benefit shall be paid to the Executive at the same time
         and on the same basis as though she had continued in the employ of the
         Company until the fifth anniversary of her date of hire (regardless of
         the date on which her employment terminates). The benefit provided
         under this Section 7(c)(iv) shall be in lieu of (and not in addition
         to) the deferred compensation benefit provided under the Offer Letter.

         (d) Discharge of the Company's Obligations. Except as expressly
provided in the last sentence of this Section 7(d) hereof, the amounts payable
to the Executive pursuant to this Section 7 following termination of the
Executive's employment shall be in full and complete satisfaction of the
Executive's rights under this Agreement and any

10

other claims the Executive may have in respect of the Executive's employment by
the Company or any of its Affiliates. Such amounts shall constitute liquidated
damages with respect to any and all such rights and claims and, upon the
Executive's receipt of such amounts, the Company shall be released and
discharged from any and all liability to the Executive in connection with this
Agreement or otherwise in connection with the Executive's employment with the
Company and its Affiliates.

         (e) Modification of Payments by the Company.

                  (i) Application of Section 7(e) Hereof. In the event that any
         amount or benefit paid or distributed to the Executive pursuant to this
         Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits otherwise paid
         or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any Affiliate under
         any other plan, agreement, or arrangement that would be taken into
         account for purposes of determining if an "excess parachute payment" as
         defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
         amended, has been made (collectively, the "Covered Payments"), would be
         an "excess parachute payment" as defined in Section 280G of the
         Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and would
         thereby subject the Executive to the tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed
         under Section 4999 of the Code (or any similar tax that may hereafter
         be imposed), the Company shall pay to the Executive an additional
         amount (the "Tax Reimbursement Payment") such that the net amount
         retained by the Executive with respect to such Covered Payments, after
         deduction of any Excise Tax on the Covered Payments and any Federal,
         state and local (including foreign) income tax and Excise Tax on the
         Tax Reimbursement Payment provided for by this Section 7(e), but before
         deduction for any Federal, state or local (including foreign) income or
         employment tax withholding on such Covered Payments, shall be equal to
         the aggregate value of the Covered Payments.

                  (ii) Calculation of Benefits. Promptly after delivery of any
         Notice of Termination, the Company shall notify the Executive of the
         aggregate present value of all Covered Payments to which the Executive
         would be entitled under this Agreement and any other plan, program or
         arrangement as of the projected Date of Termination, together with the
         projected maximum payments, determined as of such projected Date of
         Termination that could be paid without the Executive being subject to
         the Excise Tax.

                  (iii) Application of Section 280G. For purposes of determining
         whether any of the Covered Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax
         and the amount of such Excise Tax,

                  (A)      such Covered Payments will be treated as "parachute
                           payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the
                           Code, and all "parachute payments" in excess of the
                           "base amount" (as defined under Section 280G(b)(3) of
                           the Code) shall be treated as subject to the Excise
                           Tax, unless, and except to the extent that, in the
                           good faith judgment of the Company's independent
                           certified public

11

accountants appointed prior to the Effective Date or
                           tax counsel selected by such Accountants (the
                           "Accountants"), the Company has a reasonable basis to
                           conclude that any amount or benefit paid or
                           distributed to the Executive pursuant to this
                           Agreement, or any amounts or benefits otherwise paid
                           or distributed to the Executive by the Company or any
                           Affiliate under any other plan, agreement, or
                           arrangement (in whole or in part), either do not
                           constitute "parachute payments" or represent
                           reasonable compensation for personal services
                           actually rendered (within the meaning of Section
                           280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the portion
                           of the "base amount allocable to such Covered
                           Payments," or such "parachute payments" are otherwise
                           not subject to such Excise Tax, and

                  (B)      the value of any non-cash benefits or any deferred
                           payment or benefit shall be determined by the
                           Accountants in accordance with the principles of
                           Section 280G of the Code.

                  (iv) Adjustments in Respect of the Payment Cap. If the
         Executive receives reduced payments and benefits under this Section
         7(e) (or this Section 7(e) is determined not to be applicable to the
         Executive because the Accountants conclude that Executive is not
         subject to any Excise Tax) and it is established pursuant to a final
         determination of a court or an Internal Revenue Service proceeding (a
         "Final Determination") that, notwithstanding the good faith of the
         Executive and the Company in applying the terms of this Agreement, the
         aggregate "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of
         the Code paid to the Executive or for the Executive's benefit are in an
         amount that would result in the Executive being subject an Excise Tax,
         then the Accountants shall determine whether the Executive should have
         received the Tax Reimbursement Payment described in Section 7(e)(i). If
         the Tax Reimbursement Payment would have been due, the Accountants
         shall determine the amount of any interest and penalties that may be
         imposed on the Executive by reason having failed to have timely paid
         any Excise Tax (the "Penalty Amount"), and the amount of the Tax
         Reimbursement Payment due, treating the Penalty Amount as a Covered
         Payment. In the event a Tax Reimbursement Payment is due, the Company
         shall promptly (but in no event later than ten (10) business days after
         the Accountants have determined and informed the Company of the amounts
         due hereunder) pay the Executive such Tax Reimbursement Payment (as
         calculated in accordance with the immediately preceding sentence) and
         the Penalty Amount. For greater clarity, if the Executive receives
         increased payments and benefits under this Section 7(e)(i), then this
         Section 7(e)(iv) shall not apply.

         (f) Notwithstanding anything else in this Section 7 to the contrary,
nothing in this Section 7 shall be construed to release the Company from (or to
otherwise waive or modify) the Company's obligation to indemnify the Executive
pursuant to Section 5(f) hereof.

12

8. Non-exclusivity of Rights. Except as expressly provided herein,
nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or
future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plan or program
provided by the Company or any Affiliate and for which the Executive may
qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise prejudice such rights as
the Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company or any
Affiliate, including employment agreements or stock option agreements. Amounts
which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to
receive under any plan or program of the Company or any Affiliate at or
subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be paid in accordance with such plan
or program.

         9. No Offset; Deferrals. The Company's obligation to make the payments
provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations
hereunder shall not be diminished or otherwise affected by any circumstances,
including, but not limited to, any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or
other right which the Company may have against the Executive or others whether
by reason of the subsequent employment of the Executive or otherwise. For
purposes of this Agreement, except for Section 7(e), the value of an amount or
property awarded, granted, or paid to the Executive shall be determined
notwithstanding any elective deferrals of payment.

         10. Legal Fees and Expenses. If the Executive asserts any claim in any
contest (whether initiated by the Executive or by the Company) as to the
validity, enforceability or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement,
the Company shall pay the Executive's legal expenses (or cause such expenses to
be paid) including, but not limited to, the Executive's reasonable attorney's
fees, on a quarterly basis, upon presentation of proof of such expenses in a
form acceptable to the Company, provided that the Executive shall reimburse the
Company for such amounts, plus simple interest thereon at the 90-day United
States Treasury Bill rate as in effect from time to time, compounded annually,
if the Executive shall not prevail, in whole or in part, as to at least one
material issue as to the validity, enforceability or interpretation of any
provision of this Agreement.

         11. Surviving Agreements. The Agreement to Protect Corporate Property
previously executed by the Executive, any written stock option agreement into
which the Executive entered with the Company, and any Compensation Protection
Agreement into which the Executive entered with the Company are incorporated
herein and made a part hereof. The Executive and the Company hereby reaffirm
their respective commitments under the agreements to which reference is made in
this Section 11, and again agree to be bound by each of the covenants contained
therein for the benefit of the Company and Affiliates in consideration of the
benefits made available to the Executive hereby.

         12. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and,
without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the
Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's
legal representatives.

13

(b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon
the Company and its successors. The Company shall cause each Affiliate, as
applicable, to comply with the terms of this Agreement. The Company shall
require any successor to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets
of the Company, whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation,
acquisition of stock, or otherwise, expressly to assume and agree to perform
this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would
have been required to perform if no such succession had taken place.

         13. Miscellaneous. (a) Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, applied
without reference to principles of conflict of laws.

         (b) Arbitration. Except to the extent provided in Section 11(c) hereof,
any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement
shall be resolved by binding arbitration. The arbitration shall be held in New
York City and except to the extent inconsistent with this Agreement, shall be
conducted in accordance with the Expedited Employment Arbitration Rules of the
American Arbitration Association in effect at the time of the arbitration (or
such other rules as the parties may agree to in writing), and otherwise in
accordance with principles which would be applied by a court of law or equity;
provided for greater clarity, however, that in no event shall the arbitrator(s)
be bound to follow the rules of evidence, discovery, or procedure that would
applied by a court of law or equity. The arbitrator shall be acceptable to both
the Company and the Executive. If the parties cannot agree on an acceptable
arbitrator, the dispute shall be heard by a panel of three arbitrators, one
appointed by each of the parties and the third appointed by the other two
arbitrators.

         (c) Amendments. This Agreement may not be amended or modified other
than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective
successors and legal representatives.

         (d) Entire Agreement. This Agreement and, to the extent provided under
Section 7(d), the Offer Letter constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties hereto with respect to the matters referred to herein, and completely
supersedes and replaces any prior Employment Continuation Agreement (including
any such amended and restated agreement) between the Executive and the Company
and/or an Affiliate. No other agreement relating to the terms of the Executive's
employment by the Company, oral or otherwise, shall be binding between the
parties unless it is in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement
is sought. There are no promises, representations, inducements or statements
between the parties other than those that are expressly contained herein. The
Executive acknowledges entering into this Agreement of the Executive's own free
will and accord, and with no duress, that the Executive has read this Agreement
and understands it and its legal consequences.

         (e) Notices. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in
writing and shall be given by hand-delivery to the other party or by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as
follows:

14

If to the Executive:      at the home address of the Executive noted
                                   on the records of the Company

         If to the Company:        MetLife, Inc.
                                   One Madison Avenue
                                   New York, New York 10010
                                   Attn.:  Secretary

or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in
writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective
when actually received by the addressee.

         (f) Tax Withholding. The Company shall withhold from any amounts
payable under this Agreement such Federal, state or local taxes as shall be
required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.

         (g) Severability; Reformation. In the event that one or more of the
provisions of this Agreement shall become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in
any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions contained herein shall not be affected thereby.

         (h) Waiver. Waiver by any party hereto of any breach or default by the
other party of any of the terms of this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver
of any other breach or default, whether similar to or different from the breach
or default waived. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be implied
from any course of dealing between the parties hereto or from any failure by
either party hereto to assert its or the Executive's rights hereunder on any
occasion or series of occasions.

         (i) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute
one and the same instrument.

(THIS SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK)

15

(j) Captions. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the
provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.

                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the
Executive's hand and the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its
name on its behalf.

                                    METLIFE, INC.

By:
                                       ----------------------------------------

                                    Title:
                                          -------------------------------------

WITNESSED:

- --------------------

                                    EXECUTIVE:

                                    -------------------------

WITNESSED:

- --------------------

16

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.13>
 6
 y48170exv10w13.txt
 EX-10.13: 2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN, AS AMENDED

EXHIBIT 10.13

METLIFE, INC.
                            2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
                     (AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 8, 2002)

ARTICLE I.
                                     PURPOSE

         The purpose of the "METLIFE, INC. 2000 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN" as it may
be amended from time to time (the "Plan") is to foster and promote the long-term
financial success of the Company and materially increase shareholder value by
(a) motivating superior performance by means of performance-related incentives,
(b) encouraging and providing for the acquisition of an ownership interest in
the Company by the Company's and its Subsidiaries' employees and Agents, and (c)
enabling the Company to attract and retain the services of an outstanding
management team upon whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful
conduct of its operations is largely dependent.

ARTICLE II.
                                   DEFINITIONS

         2.1 Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have
the respective meanings set forth below:

                  (a) "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
         amended.

                  (b) "Agent" means an "insurance agent" as defined in Section
         2101 of the New York Insurance Law.

                  (c) "Approved Retirement" means termination of a Participant's
         employment (i) on or after the normal retirement date or (ii) with the
         Committee's approval, on or after any early retirement date established
         under any retirement plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary and
         in which the Participant participates; provided that in each case, the
         Committee may require, as a condition to a Participant's retirement
         being an "Approved Retirement" for purpose of the Plan, that the
         Participant enter into a general release of claims, non-solicitation
         and/or non-competition agreement in form and substance satisfactory to
         the Company.

                  (d) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

                  (e) "Cause" means (i) the willful failure by the Participant
         to perform substantially his duties as an Employee of the Company
         (other than due to physical or mental illness) after reasonable notice
         to the Participant of such failure, (ii) the

Participant's engaging in serious misconduct that is injurious to the
         Company or any Subsidiary in any way, including, but not limited to, by
         way of damage to their respective reputations or standings in their
         respective industries, (iii) the Participant's having been convicted
         of, or having entered a plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that
         constitutes a felony or (iv) the breach by the Participant of any
         written covenant or agreement with the Company or any Subsidiary not to
         disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any
         property of, the Company or any Subsidiary or not to compete or
         interfere with the Company or any Subsidiary.

                  (f) "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if:

                           (i) any person (within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9)
                  of the Act), including any group (within the meaning of Rule
                  13d-5(b) under the Act), but excluding the MetLife
                  Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would otherwise be
                  described herein solely by reason of having the power to
                  control the voting of the shares held by such Trust) and any
                  employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or
                  maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary thereof, acquires
                  "beneficial ownership" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under
                  the Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
                  representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power (as
                  defined below) of the Company's securities; or

                           (ii) within any 24-month period, the persons who were
                  directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (the
                  "Incumbent Directors") shall cease to constitute at least a
                  majority of the Board or the board of directors of any
                  successor to the Company; provided, however, that any director
                  elected to the Board, or nominated for election, by a majority
                  of the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be
                  deemed to be an Incumbent Director for purposes of this
                  subclause (ii); or

                           (iii) upon the consummation of a merger,
                  consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other
                  disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the
                  Company which has been approved by the shareholders of the
                  Company (a "Corporate Event"), and immediately following the
                  consummation of which the stockholders of the Company
                  immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not hold,
                  directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (x)
                  in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or
                  resulting corporation, (y) in the case of a share exchange,
                  the acquiring corporation or (z) in the case of a division or
                  a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving,
                  resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately
                  following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of
                  the consolidated assets of the Company immediately prior to
                  such Corporate Event; or

                           (iv) any other event occurs which the Board declares
                  to be a Change of Control.

2

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change of Control shall not be deemed
         to have occurred merely as a result of (i) the conversion of the
         Company from a mutual life insurance company to a stock company whose
         shareholders are either (x) primarily persons who were policyholders of
         the Company immediately prior to such transaction and/or a trust
         holding the shares of the Company for the benefit of such policyholders
         or (y) another corporation the shares of which are held primarily by
         the persons and/or trust described in subclause (x); (ii) the Company
         becoming a direct or indirect subsidiary of a mutual holding company
         whose members are primarily persons who were policyholders of the
         Company immediately prior to such transaction, (iii) an underwritten
         offering of the equity securities of the Company (including, without
         limitation, any offering of any class of convertible preferred
         securities) effected in connection with the Demutualization or (iv) any
         other transaction that would constitute an "Other Capital Raising
         Transaction" within the meaning of the plan of reorganization adopted
         by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in connection with the
         Demutualization.

                  (g) "Change of Control Price" means the highest price per
         share of Common Stock offered in conjunction with any transaction
         resulting in a Change of Control (as determined in good faith by the
         Committee if any part of the offered price is payable other than in
         cash) or, in the case of a Change of Control occurring solely by reason
         of a change in the composition of the Board, the highest Fair Market
         Value of the Common Stock on any of the 30 trading days immediately
         preceding the date on which a Change of Control occurs.

                  (h) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
         amended.

                  (i) "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board
         or such other committee of the Board as the Board shall designate from
         time to time, which committee shall consist of two or more members,
         each of whom shall be a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of
         Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule thereto), as promulgated under the
         Act, and an "outside director" within the meaning of section 162(m) of
         the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.

                  (j) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par
         value $0.01 per share.

                  (k) "Company" means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and
         any successor thereto.

                  (l) "Demutualization" means the demutualization of
         Metropolitan Life Insurance Company pursuant to a plan of
         reorganization approved by the New York State Superintendent of
         Insurance under Section 7312 of the New York Insurance Law.

3

(m) "Directors Plan" means the Company's 2000 Directors Stock
         Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time.

                  (n) "Disability" has the meaning given in the Company's
         long-term disability insurance policy or program as in effect from time
         to time.

                  (o) "Employee" means any officer or other employee of the
         Company, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company or any Subsidiary (as
         determined by the Committee in its sole discretion); provided, however,
         that with respect to Incentive Stock Options, "Employee" means any
         person who is considered an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary
         for purposes of Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-7(h).

                  (p) "Fair Market Value" means, on any date, the closing prices
         of the Common Stock as reported in the principal consolidated
         transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on
         such other recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of
         the Common Stock are quoted at the relevant time) on such date. In the
         event that there are no Common Stock transactions reported on such tape
         (or such other system) on such date, Fair Market Value shall mean the
         closing price on the immediately preceding date on which Common Stock
         transactions were so reported.

                  (q) "Family Member" means, as to a Participant, any (i) child,
         stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
         sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
         brother-in-law, or sister-in-law (including adoptive relationships), of
         such Participant, (ii) trust for the exclusive benefit of such persons
         and (iii) other entity owned solely by such persons.

                  (r) "Option" means the right to purchase Common Stock at a
         stated price for a specified period of time. For purposes of the Plan,
         an Option may be either (i) an "Incentive Stock Option" (ISO) within
         the meaning of Section 422 of the Code or (ii) an option which is not
         an Incentive Stock Option (a "Nonstatutory Stock Option" (NSO)).

                  (s) "Participant" means any Employee or Agent designated by
         the Committee to participate in the Plan.

                  (t) "Plan Effective Date" means the "Plan Effective Date"
         determined under Section 5.2(b) of the Plan of Reorganization, dated
         September 28, 1999, of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, as amended.

                  (u) "Subsidiary" means any corporation or partnership in which
         the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the total
         combined voting power of all classes of stock of such corporation or of
         the capital interest or profits interest of such partnership.

4

2.2 Gender and Number. Except when otherwise indicated by the context,
words in the masculine gender used in the Plan shall include the feminine
gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular.

5

ARTICLE III.
                          ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION

                  Participants in the Plan shall be those Employees or Agents
selected by the Committee to be granted Options pursuant to Article VI.

ARTICLE IV.
                             POWERS OF THE COMMITTEE

         4.1 Power to Grant. The Committee shall determine the Participants to
whom Options shall be granted and the terms and conditions of any and all such
Options. The Committee may establish different terms and conditions for
different Participants and for the same Participant for each Option such
Participant may receive, whether or not granted at different times.
Notwithstanding any other contrary provision in the Plan, Options shall not be
granted prior to the first anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.

         4.2 Certain Rules Relating to Grants.

                  (a) Maximum Individual Grants. During any consecutive five
         year period, no individual Participant may be granted Options to
         acquire more than 5% of the total shares available under the Plan.

                  (b) Cumulative Grant Limits. The maximum number of Options
         (expressed as a percentage of the total number of shares available
         under the Plan as set forth in Section 5.1) that may be awarded, on a
         cumulative basis (but excluding any forfeited, canceled or expired
         Options), shall be as follows:

----------------------------------------------
                              prior to the second
                      anniversary of the Plan Effective Date     60%
                      ----------------------------------------------
                              prior to the third
                      anniversary of the Plan Effective Date     80%
                      ----------------------------------------------
                              prior to the fourth
                      anniversary of the Plan Effective Date    100%
                      ----------------------------------------------

(c) Repricing or Substitution of Options. The Committee shall
         not have the right to reprice outstanding Options or to grant new
         Options under the Plan in substitution for or upon the cancellation of
         Options previously granted.

         4.3 Administration.

         (a) Rules, Interpretations and Determinations. The Plan shall be
administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to
interpret and administer the Plan, to establish, amend, and rescind rules and
regulations relating to the Plan, to provide for conditions deemed necessary or
advisable to protect the interests of the Company, to construe the respective
option agreements and to make all other determinations it determines necessary
or advisable for the administration and

6

interpretation of the Plan in order to carry out its provisions and purposes.
Determinations, interpretations, or other actions made or taken by the Committee
shall be final, binding, and conclusive for all purposes and upon all persons.

         (b) Agents and Expenses. The Committee may appoint agents (who may be
officers or employees of the Company) to assist in the administration of the
Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute agreements or other
documents on its behalf. The Committee may employ such legal counsel,
consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the
Plan and may rely upon any opinion received from any such counsel or consultant
and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. All expenses
incurred in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, for
the engagement of any counsel, consultant or agent, shall be paid by the
Company.

         4.4 Delegation of Authority. The Committee may delegate its duties,
powers and authorities under the Plan to the Company's Chief Executive Officer
with respect to individuals who are below the position of Senior Vice President
(or analogous title), pursuant to such conditions or limitations as the
Committee may establish; provided that only the Committee or the Board may
select, and grant Options to, Participants who are subject to Section 16 of the
Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Chief Executive
Officer grant (i) Options which, in the aggregate, represent more than 1.5% of
the total number of shares authorized for issuance under the Plan or (ii) to any
single Participant in any twelve month period more than 5% of the total number
of shares that the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to grant. The Chief
Executive Officer shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the
nature and scope of the Options granted pursuant to the authority granted to him
under this Section 4.4.

ARTICLE V.
                              STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN

         5.1 Number. Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3, the number of
shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan shall not exceed 5% of the total
number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the Plan
Effective Date; provided that the number of shares issuable under the Plan shall
be reduced by the number of shares issuable pursuant to any "Options" granted
pursuant to the Directors Plan (as such term is defined in the Directors Plan).
The shares to be delivered under the Plan may consist, in whole or in part, of
treasury Common Stock or authorized but unissued Common Stock, not reserved for
any other purpose.

         5.2 Canceled, Terminated, or Forfeited Options. Any shares of Common
Stock subject to an Option which for any reason is canceled, terminated or
otherwise settled without the issuance of any Common Stock (including, but not
limited to, shares tendered to exercise outstanding Options or shares tendered
or withheld for taxes) shall again be available for Options under the Plan.

7

5.3 Adjustment in Capitalization. In the event of any Common Stock
dividend or Common Stock split, recapitalization (including, but not limited, to
the payment of an extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation, combination,
spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders (other than ordinary cash
dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change, the aggregate
number of shares of Common Stock available for Options under Section 5.1 or
subject to outstanding Options and the respective exercise prices applicable to
outstanding Options shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee and the
Committee's determination shall be conclusive; provided, however, that no
adjustment shall occur by reason of the issuance of Common Stock in accordance
with the Demutualization and that any fractional shares resulting from any such
adjustment shall be disregarded.

ARTICLE VI.
                                  STOCK OPTIONS

         6.1 Grant of Options. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.1, Options
may be granted to Participants at such time or times as shall be determined by
the Committee. Options granted under the Plan may be of two types: (i) Incentive
Stock Options and (ii) Nonstatutory Stock Options. Except as otherwise provided
herein, the Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number
of Options, if any, to be granted to a Participant. Each Option shall be
evidenced by an Option agreement that shall specify the type of Option granted,
the exercise price, the duration of the Option, the number of shares of Common
Stock to which the Option pertains, and such other terms and conditions as the
Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the
Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Options granted to a Participant who is
an Agent shall comply with the provisions of Section 4228 of the New York
Insurance Law and any regulations thereunder.

         6.2 Option Price. Nonstatutory Stock Options and Incentive Stock
Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall have an exercise price no less than
the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Option is
granted.

         6.3 Exercise of Options. One-third of each Nonstatutory Stock Option or
Incentive Stock Option granted pursuant to the Plan shall become exercisable on
each of the first three anniversaries of the date such Option is granted;
provided that in no event shall any Option be or become exercisable hereunder
prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date and, if and to the
extent this proviso limits the exercisability of any Option, the portion so
limited shall become exercisable on such second anniversary; provided, further,
that the Committee may at the time of grant establish longer periods of service
for Options to become exercisable and may establish performance-based criteria
for exercisability. Subject to the provisions of Article VII, once any portion
of any Option has become exercisable it shall remain exercisable for its full
term. The Committee shall determine the term of each Nonstatutory Stock Option
or Incentive Stock Option granted, but in no event shall any such Option be
exercisable for more than 10 years after the date on which it is granted.

8

6.4 Payment. The Committee shall establish procedures governing the
exercise of Options. No shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an
Option unless arrangements satisfactory to the Committee have been made to
assure full payment of the option price therefor. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, payment of the option price may be made (i) in cash
or its equivalent, (ii) by exchanging shares of Common Stock owned by the
optionee (which are not the subject of any pledge or other security interest),
(iii) through an arrangement with a broker approved by the Company whereby
payment of the exercise price is accomplished with the proceeds of the sale of
Common Stock or (iv) by any combination of the foregoing; provided that the
combined value of all cash and cash equivalents paid and the Fair Market Value
of any such Common Stock so tendered to the Company, valued as of the date of
such tender, is at least equal to such option price. The Company may not make a
loan to a Participant to facilitate such Participant's exercise of any of his or
her Options.

         6.5 Incentive Stock Options. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to
the contrary, no Option that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option may be
granted after the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan and no
term of this Plan relating to Incentive Stock Options shall be interpreted,
amended or altered, nor shall any discretion or authority granted under the Plan
be exercised, so as to disqualify the Plan under Section 422 of the Code, or,
without the consent of any Participant affected thereby, to disqualify any
Incentive Stock Option under such Section 422.

ARTICLE VII.
                            TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

         7.1 Termination of Employment Due to Death. In the event a
Participant's employment terminates by reason of death, any Options granted to
such Participant shall become immediately exercisable in full and may be
exercised by the Participant's designated beneficiary, and if none is named, in
accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to the expiration of the term of
the Options (or such shorter period as the Committee shall determine at the time
of grant).

         7.2 Termination of Employment Due to Approved Retirement or
Qualification for Disability Benefits. In the event a Participant's employment
terminates by reason of Approved Retirement or a Participant qualifies for
Disability benefits, any Options granted to such Participant which are then
outstanding shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Section 6.3
notwithstanding such qualification for benefits or termination of employment and
may be exercised by the Participant or the Participant's designated beneficiary,
and if none is named, in accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to the
expiration date of the term of the Options (or such shorter period as the
Committee shall determine at the time of grant). Notwithstanding any other terms
of Article VII of this Plan, if a Participant qualifies for Disability no
subsequent termination of employment, other than a termination of employment for
Cause, shall affect any Options previously granted to such Participant which are
then outstanding.

9

7.3 Certain Divestitures, etc. In the event that a Participant's
employment is terminated in connection with a sale, divestiture, spin-off or
other similar transaction involving a Subsidiary, division or business segment
or unit, the Committee may provide at the time of grant or otherwise that all or
any portion of any Options granted to such Participant which are then
outstanding shall continue to become exercisable in accordance with Section 6.3
notwithstanding such termination of employment and may be exercised by the
Participant or the Participant's designated beneficiary, and if none is named,
in accordance with Section 10.2, at any time prior to the expiration date of the
term of the Options or within three (3) years (or such shorter period as the
Committee shall determine at or following the time of grant) following the
Participant's termination of employment, whichever period is shorter.

         7.4 Termination of Employment for Cause. In the event a Participant's
employment is terminated for Cause, any Options granted to such Participant that
are then not yet exercised shall be forfeited.

         7.5 Termination of Employment for Any Other Reason. Unless otherwise
determined by the Committee at or following the time of grant, in the event the
employment of the Participant shall terminate for any reason other than one
described in Section 7.1, 7.2, 7.3 or 7.4, any Options granted to such
Participant which are exercisable at the date of the Participant's termination
of employment may be exercised at any time prior to the expiration of the term
of the Options or the thirtieth day following the Participant's termination of
employment, whichever period is shorter, and any Options that are not
exercisable at the time of termination of employment shall be forfeited.

ARTICLE VIII.
                                CHANGE OF CONTROL

         8.1 Accelerated Vesting and Payment. Subject to the provisions of
Section 8.2, in the event of a Change of Control each Option shall be fully
exercisable regardless of the exercise schedule otherwise applicable to such
Option and, in connection with such a Change of Control, the Committee may, in
its discretion, provide that each Option shall, upon the occurrence of such
Change of Control, be canceled in exchange for a payment in an amount equal to
the excess, if any, of the Change of Control Price over the exercise price for
such Option.

         8.2 Alternative Awards. Notwithstanding Section 8.1, no cancellation,
acceleration of exercisability, vesting, cash settlement or other payment shall
occur with respect to any Option if the Committee reasonably determines in good
faith prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control that such Option shall be
honored or assumed, or new rights substituted therefor (such honored, assumed or
substituted award hereinafter called an "Alternative Award"), by a Participant's
employer (or the parent or an affiliate of such employer) immediately following
the Change of Control; provided that any such Alternative Award must:

10

(i) be based on stock which is traded on an established
         securities market, or that the Committee reasonably believes will be so
         traded within 60 days after the Change of Control;

                  (ii) provide such Participant with rights and entitlements
         substantially equivalent to or better than the rights, terms and
         conditions applicable under such Option, including, but not limited to,
         an identical or better exercise or vesting schedule and identical or
         better timing and methods of payment;

                  (iii) have substantially equivalent economic value to such
         Option (determined at the time of the Change of Control); and

                  (iv) have terms and conditions which provide that in the event
         that the Participant's employment is involuntarily terminated or
         constructively terminated, any conditions on a Participant's rights
         under, or any restrictions on transfer or exercisability applicable to,
         each such Alternative Award shall be waived or shall lapse, as the case
         may be.

For this purpose, a constructive termination shall mean a termination of
employment by a Participant following a material reduction in the Participant's
base salary or a Participant's incentive compensation opportunity or a material
reduction in the Participant's responsibilities, in either case without the
Participant's written consent.

ARTICLE IX.
                AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, AND TERMINATION OF PLAN

                  The Board at any time may terminate the Plan, and from time to
time may amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that any amendment which
would (i) increase the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan,
(ii) lower the minimum exercise price at which an Option may be granted or (iii)
extend the maximum term for Options granted hereunder shall be subject to the
approval of the Company's shareholders and no amendment made prior to the fifth
anniversary of the Plan Effective Date shall be or become effective without the
consent of the New York Superintendent of Insurance. No amendment, modification,
or termination of the Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any Option
theretofore granted under the Plan, without the consent of the Participant.

SECTION X.
                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

         10.1 Transferability of Options. No Options granted under the Plan may
be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated,
other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution; provided that the
Committee may, in the

11

Option agreement or otherwise, permit transfers of Nonstatutory Stock Options by
gift or a domestic relations order to Family Members.

         10.2 Beneficiary Designation. Each Participant under the Plan may from
time to time name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named
contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid
or by whom any right under the Plan is to be exercised in case of his death.
Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant,
shall be in a form prescribed by the Committee, and will be effective only when
received by the Committee in writing during his lifetime. In the absence of any
such effective designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant's death
shall be paid to or exercised by the Participant's surviving spouse, if any, or
otherwise to or by his estate.

         10.3 Deferral of Payment. The Committee may, in the Option agreement or
otherwise, permit a Participant to elect, upon such terms and conditions as the
Committee may establish, to defer receipt of shares of Common Stock that would
otherwise be issued upon exercise of a Nonstatutory Stock Option.

         10.4 No Guarantee of Employment or Participation. Nothing in the Plan
shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any
Subsidiary to terminate any Participant's employment or service at any time, nor
confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company
or any Subsidiary or any other affiliate of the Company. No Employee shall have
a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to receive
any future Options.

         10.5 Tax Withholding. The Company shall have the power to withhold, or
require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy
Federal, state, and local withholding tax requirements on any Option under the
Plan, and the Company may defer issuance of Common Stock until such requirements
are satisfied. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit a Participant to
elect, subject to such conditions as the Committee shall impose, (i) to have
shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable under the Plan withheld by the Company
or (ii) to deliver to the Company previously acquired shares of Common Stock
having a Fair Market Value sufficient to satisfy such withholding tax obligation
associated with the transaction.

         10.6 Indemnification. Each person who is or shall have been a member of
the Committee or of the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the
Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be
imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from
any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be made a party or in
which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under
the Plan (in the absence of bad faith) and against and from any and all amounts
paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him
in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against
him; provided that he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own
expense, to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend
it on his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be
exclusive and shall be independent of any other rights of indemnification to
which

12

such person may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or
By-Laws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise.

         10.7 No Limitation on Compensation. Nothing in the Plan shall be
construed to limit the right of the Company to establish other plans, provided
that the Company shall not be permitted to establish any other stock option or
stock incentive plans prior to the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date
without the advance approval of the New York Superintendent of Insurance.
Nothing in this Section 10.7 shall be construed to limit the ability of the
Company to use stock in connection with any compensation arrangement, approved
by the New York Superintendent of Insurance pursuant to Section 10.1 and
Schedule 3(c) of the Plan of Reorganization.

         10.8 Requirements of Law. The granting of Options and the issuance of
shares of Common Stock shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national
securities exchanges as may be required.

         10.9 Term of Plan. The Plan shall be effective upon its adoption by the
Board and approval by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the sole shareholder
of the Company and by the New York Superintendent of Insurance pursuant to
Section 7312(w) of the New York Insurance Law. The Plan shall continue in
effect, unless sooner terminated pursuant to Article IX, until no more shares
are available for issuance under the Plan.

         10.10 Governing Law. The Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be
construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware,
without regard to principles of conflict of laws.

         10.11 No Impact on Benefits. Except as may otherwise be specifically
stated under any employee benefit plan, policy or program, Options shall not be
treated as compensation for purposes of calculating an Employee's right under
any such plan, policy or program.

         10.12 No Constraint on Corporate Action. Nothing in this Plan shall be
construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company's right or power
to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its
capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve,
liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets or (ii)
except as provided in Article IX, to limit the right or power of the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries to take any action which such entity deems to be
necessary or appropriate.

13

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.17>
 7
 y48170exv10w17.txt
 EX-10.17: 2000 DIRECTORS STOCK PLAN, AS AMENDED

EXHIBIT 10.17

METLIFE, INC.
                            2000 DIRECTORS STOCK PLAN
                     (AS AMENDED EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 8, 2002)

ARTICLE I.
                                     PURPOSE

         The purposes of the "METLIFE, INC. 2000 DIRECTORS STOCK PLAN" (the
"Plan") are to enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate the best
qualified non-employee directors and to enhance a long-term mutuality of
interests between the non-employee directors and stockholders of the Company by
granting stock and stock options as provided herein.

ARTICLE II.
                                   DEFINITIONS

         2.1 Definitions. Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have
the respective meanings set forth below:

                  (a) "Award" means any Option or Share Award.

                  (b) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

                  (c) "Cash Fees" means the amount of any fees that would,
         absent an election to receive an Elective Share Award pursuant to the
         terms of the Plan, be payable by the Company in cash to a Participant
         for any services to be performed by the Participant.

                  (d) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
         amended.

                  (e) "Committee" means the Nominating and Corporate Governance
         Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as the
         Board shall designate from time to time, which committee shall consist
         of at least two members, each of whom shall qualify as a Non-Employee
         Director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule
         thereto), as promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
         amended.

                  (f) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company, par
         value $0.01 per share.

                  (g) "Company" means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and
         any successor thereto.

(h) "Deferred Share" means a contractual right to receive one
         Share on a deferred basis in accordance with the terms of the Plan.

                  (i) "Elective Share Award" means any award of Shares made by
         reason of the election of a Participant to receive Shares in lieu of
         Cash Fees; provided that in no event shall any Elective Share Awards be
         issued prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.

                  (j) "Fair Market Value" means, on any date, the closing price
         of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated transaction
         reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other
         recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Common
         Stock are quoted at the relevant time on such date). In the event that
         there are no Common Stock transactions reported on such tape (or other
         system) on such date, Fair Market Value means the closing price on the
         immediately preceding date on which Common Stock transactions were so
         reported.

                  (k) "Family Member" means, as to a Participant, any (i) child,
         stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse,
         sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
         brother-in-law, or sister-in-law (including adoptive relationships), of
         such Participant, (ii) trust for the exclusive benefit of such persons
         and (iii) other entity owned solely by such persons.

                  (l) "Fee Share Award" means any award of Shares made at the
         direction of the Committee in lieu of Cash Fees.

                  (m) "Option" means the right to purchase one Share at a stated
         purchase price on the terms specified in Article V of the Plan. The
         Options are nonstatutory stock options not intended to qualify under
         Section 422 of the Code.

                  (n) "Participant" means a member of the Board who is not an
         officer or employee of the Company or any entity controlling,
         controlled by, or under common control with the Company, and is not the
         beneficial owner of a controlling interest in the voting stock of the
         Company or of any entity that holds a controlling interest in the
         Company's voting stock.

                  (o) "Plan" means the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan,
         as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.

                  (p) "Plan Effective Date" means the "Plan Effective Date"
         determined under Section 5.2(b) of the Plan of Reorganization, dated
         September 28, 1999, of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, as amended.

                  (q)  "Share" means a share of Common Stock.

                  (r) "Share Award" means any Elective Share Award or Fee Share
         Award.

2

(s) "Stock Account" means a memorandum account established to
         record the deferral of certain compensation otherwise payable to a
         Participant which shall be deemed invested in Deferred Shares.

                  (t) "Stock Incentive Plan" means the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock
         Incentive Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time.

                  2.2 Gender and Number. Except when otherwise indicated by the
context, words in the masculine gender used in the Plan shall include the
feminine gender, the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall
include the singular.

ARTICLE III.
                                 ADMINISTRATION

         3.1 Rules, Interpretation and Determinations. The Plan shall be
administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to
interpret and administer the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind rules for
carrying out the Plan, to construe the respective option agreements and to make
all other determinations and to take all other actions that it deems necessary
or advisable for administering the Plan. Each determination, interpretation or
other action made or taken by the Committee shall be final and binding for all
purposes and upon all persons.

                  3.2 Agents and Expenses. The Committee may appoint agents (who
may be officers or employees of the Company) to assist in the administration of
the Plan and may grant authority to such persons to execute agreements or other
documents on its behalf. The Committee may employ such legal counsel,
consultants and agents as it may deem desirable for the administration of the
Plan and may rely upon any opinion received from any such counsel or consultant
and any computation received from any such consultant or agent. All expenses
incurred in the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, for
the engagement of any counsel, consultant or agent, shall be paid by the
Company.

ARTICLE IV. SHARES; ADJUSTMENT UPON CERTAIN EVENTS

         4.1 Source of Shares. Shares to be issued under the Plan may consist,
in whole or in part, of treasury shares or authorized but unissued Shares not
reserved for any other purpose.

         4.2 Number of Share Awards. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.5
hereof, the aggregate number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan as
Share Awards under Article VI shall not exceed 500,000 Shares.

         4.3 Number of Options. Subject to the provisions of Section 4.5 hereof,
the aggregate number of Shares issuable under the Plan pursuant to Options shall
not exceed 0.05% of the total number of Shares outstanding immediately after the
Plan Effective

3

Date. In addition, Shares issuable pursuant to Options granted under the Plan
shall reduce the number of Shares issuable under the Stock Incentive Plan.

         4.4 Canceled, Terminated, or Forfeited Options. In the event Options
are for any reason canceled, terminated or otherwise settled without the
issuance of any Common Stock (including, but not limited to, shares tendered to
exercise outstanding Options or shares tendered or withheld for taxes), the
Shares subject to such Options shall again be available for the granting of
Options under the Plan and the Stock Incentive Plan.

                  4.5 Adjustment in Capitalization. In the event of any Share
dividend or Share split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, combination,
spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders (other than ordinary cash
dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change, the aggregate
number of Shares available for Awards pursuant to either Section 4.2 or Section
4.3, distributable in respect of Deferred Shares or subject to outstanding
Options, and the respective exercise prices applicable to outstanding Options
shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee and the Committee's
determination shall be conclusive; provided that any fractional shares resulting
from any such adjustment shall be disregarded.

ARTICLE V.
                           AWARDS AND TERMS OF OPTIONS

         5.1 Grant. The Committee shall, subject to the approval of the Board,
determine the Participants to whom Options shall be granted and, subject to
Section 5.2, the terms and conditions of any and all Options granted to
Participants. In making such determination, the Committee shall give due
consideration to such factors as it deems appropriate, including, but not
limited to, the performance of the Company. Any Options granted hereunder prior
to the fifth anniversary of the Plan Effective Date shall be granted in
substitution for a portion of the fees that would otherwise have been payable in
cash to the Participant for services as a director and not subject to a Share
Award, in such manner and on such basis as the Committee shall reasonably
determine (including, without limitation, by application of the Black-Scholes
option valuation methodology). Notwithstanding any other contrary provision in
the Plan, no Options shall be granted prior to the first anniversary of the Plan
Effective Date.

         5.2 Option Agreement. Options shall be evidenced by a written option
agreement embodying the following terms:

                  (a) Exercise Price. The exercise price per Share of an Option
         shall be not less than the Fair Market Value on the date such Option is
         granted.

                  (b) Period of Exercisability. Each Option granted hereunder
         shall be immediately exercisable; provided that in no event shall any
         Option be or become exercisable hereunder prior to the second
         anniversary of the Plan Effective Date and, if and to the extent this
         proviso limits the exercisability of any Option, the portion so limited
         shall become exercisable on such second anniversary. Each Option shall,
         if not previously exercised in accordance with the terms of the Plan,

4

in all events expire upon the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date of
         the grant thereof. In the event a Participant ceases to provide
         services to the Company for any reason, the Participant or, after the
         Participant's death, the Participant's estate or beneficiary, may
         exercise any Option held by the Participant at the date his or her
         service terminates until the tenth (10th) anniversary of the date the
         Option was granted; provided, however, that if the Participant's
         service as a member of the Board terminates prior to the second
         anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, the Option may not be exercised
         prior to such second anniversary.

                  (c) Procedure for Exercise. A Participant electing to exercise
         one or more Options shall give written notice to the Secretary of the
         Company of such election and of the number of Shares he has elected to
         purchase. No shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an
         Option unless arrangements satisfactory to the Committee have been made
         to assure full payment of the option price therefor. Without limiting
         the generality of the foregoing, payment of the option price may be
         made (i) in cash or its equivalent, (ii) by exchanging shares of Common
         Stock owned by the optionee (which are not the subject of any pledge or
         other security interest), (iii) through an arrangement with a broker
         approved by the Company whereby payment of the exercise price is
         accomplished with the proceeds of the sale of Common Stock or (iv) by
         any combination of the foregoing; provided that the combined value of
         all cash and cash equivalents paid and the Fair Market Value of any
         such Common Stock so tendered to the Company, valued as of the date of
         such tender, is at least equal to such option price. The Company may
         not make a loan to a Participant to facilitate such Participant's
         exercise of any of his or her Options.

ARTICLE VI.
                                  SHARE AWARDS

         6.1 Fee Share Awards. Commencing with respect to fees payable for
services rendered after the first anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, the
Committee may require that up to one-half of the Cash Fees otherwise payable to
a Participant be payable in Shares, issuable as of the first day of the calendar
quarter (or, with respect to the first Fee Share Award, the first day of the
first calendar month after the twelve month anniversary of the Plan Effective
Date) with respect to which the Cash Fees would otherwise have been payable to
the Participant in cash (the "Date of Issuance"). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if the Date of Issuance determined in the preceding sentence is not a business
day, the grant of Shares shall be made on the next following business day. The
number of Shares to be issued as a Fee Share Award as of each Date of Issuance
shall equal the greatest number of whole Shares derived from the quotient of (i)
the dollar amount of the Cash Fees the Committee has determined to pay in Shares
and (ii) the Fair Market Value on the Date of Issuance. If, after the
application of the preceding formula as of any Date of Issuance, there is a cash
remainder, the Company shall pay the Participant the amount of such cash
remainder as soon as practicable following such Date of Issuance. In no event
shall any Shares acquired pursuant to any Fee Share Award be sold by a
Participant prior to the second anniversary of the Plan Effective Date.

5

6.2 Elective Share Awards. Commencing with respect to Cash
Fees payable for services rendered after the second anniversary of the Plan
Effective Date, a Participant may elect to have any portion of the fees that
would otherwise have been payable to the Participant in cash for services as a
director (less any amounts paid as Fee Share Awards or, until the fifth
anniversary of the Plan Effective Date, granted as Options) paid in Shares. The
Date of Issuance in respect of any Cash Fees which are part of the Participant's
annual retainer fees shall be the first day of the calendar quarter with respect
to which the related Cash Fees would otherwise have been payable to the
Participant, and in respect of any other Cash Fees, as of the first day of the
calendar quarter following the quarter with respect to which such Cash Fees
would otherwise have been payable to the Participant. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the Date of Issuance determined in the preceding sentence is not a
business day, the grant of Shares shall be made on the next following business
day. The number of Shares to be issued as an Elective Share Award as of each
Date of Issuance shall equal the greatest number of whole Shares derived from
the quotient of (i) the dollar amount of the Cash Fees elected to be paid in
Shares at such Date of Issuance in accordance with the second preceding sentence
and (ii) the Fair Market Value on the Date of Issuance. If, after the
application of the preceding formula as of any Date of Issuance, there is a cash
remainder, the Company shall pay the Participant the amount of such cash
remainder as soon as practicable following such Date of Issuance.

ARTICLE VII.
                             RECEIPT OF SHARE AWARDS

         7.1 Election. A Participant may elect to defer receipt of all or any
part of the Shares issuable to the Participant in respect of any Share Award.
Any such election shall be made (i) as to which the Date of Issuance is in the
same calendar year in which the Plan becomes effective, within thirty days of
the date this Plan is adopted and (ii) with respect to any other Fee Share Award
or Elective Share Award, by December 31 of the calendar year prior to the year
in which the Date of Issuance would otherwise occur. Notwithstanding the
immediately preceding sentence, any person who becomes a Participant after the
adoption of the Plan may elect, not later than the end of the calendar month in
which the Participant becomes a member of the Board, to defer delivery of all or
any part of the Shares deliverable in respect of any Share Award to be made
following such election.

         7.2 Form and Duration of Election. An election to defer receipt shall
be made by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company. Such election
shall continue in effect (including with respect to Share Awards for subsequent
calendar years) unless and until the Participant revokes or modifies such
election by written notice filed with the Secretary of the Company. Any such
revocation or modification of a deferral election shall become effective as of
the end of the calendar year in which such notice is given and only with respect
to Share Awards to be made in subsequent calendar years. Amounts credited to the
Participant's Stock Account prior to the effective date of any such revocation
or modification of a deferral election shall not be affected by such revocation
or modification and shall be distributed only in accordance with the otherwise

6

applicable terms of the Plan. A Participant who has revoked an election to
participate in the Plan may file a new election to defer Share Awards with
respect to Shares to be granted in the calendar year following the year in which
such election is filed.

         7.3 Stock Account. Any Share Award as to which a Participant has
elected to defer delivery of the Shares shall be credited to the Participant's
Stock Account and shall be deemed to be invested in a number of Deferred Shares
equal to the number of Shares that would otherwise have been delivered to the
Participant. Whenever a dividend other than a dividend payable in the form of
Shares is declared with respect to the Shares, the number of Deferred Shares in
the Participant's Stock Account shall be increased by the number of Deferred
Shares determined by dividing (i) the product of (A) the number of Deferred
Shares in the Participant's Stock Account on the related dividend record date
and (B) the amount of any cash dividend declared by the Company on a Share (or,
in the case of any dividend distributable in property other than Shares, the per
share value of such dividend, as determined by the Company for purposes of
income tax reporting) by (ii) the Fair Market Value on the related dividend
payment date. In the case of any dividend declared on Shares which is payable in
Shares, the Participant's Stock Account shall be increased by the number of
Deferred Shares equal to the product of (i) the number of Deferred Shares
credited to the Participant's Stock Account on the related dividend record date
and (ii) the number of Shares (including any fraction thereof) distributable as
a dividend on a Share. In the event of any change in the number or kind of
outstanding Shares by reason of any recapitalization, reorganization, merger,
consolidation, stock split or any similar change affecting the Shares, other
than a stock dividend as provided above, the Committee shall make an appropriate
adjustment in the number of Deferred Shares credited to the Participant's Stock
Account.

                  7.4 Distribution from Accounts Upon Termination of Service as
a Director. All distributions from the Participant's Stock Account shall be made
in Shares. At the time a Participant makes a deferral election pursuant to
Section 7.1, the Participant shall also file with the Secretary of the Company a
written election with respect to whether such distribution (i) shall commence
immediately following the date the Participant ceases to be a Participant or on
the first business day of any calendar year following the calendar year in which
the Participant ceases to be a Participant and (ii) shall be in one lump-sum or
in such number of annual installments (not to exceed ten) as the Participant may
designate. If installments are elected, the number of Shares distributable with
respect to each installment shall be equal to the number of Deferred Shares then
credited to the Stock Account times a fraction, the numerator of which is one
(1) and the denominator of which is the number of installments (including the
current installment) remaining to be paid. A Participant may at any time, and
from time to time, change any distribution election applicable to the
Participant's Stock Account; provided that no election to change the timing of
any such distribution shall be effective unless it is made in writing and
received by the Secretary of the Company at least one full calendar year prior
to the time at which the Participant ceases to provide services to the Company.
If a Participant fails to specify a commencement date for a distribution in
accordance with this Section 7.4, such distribution shall commence on the first
business day of the calendar year immediately following the year in which the
Participant ceases to be a Participant. If a Participant fails to specify
whether distribution shall be made in a

7

lump-sum or in a number of installments, such distribution shall be made in a
lump-sum. In the case of any distribution being made in annual installments,
each installment after the first installment shall be paid on the first business
day of each subsequent calendar year until the entire amount subject to such
installments shall have been paid.

ARTICLE VIII.
                            TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS

         No Award shall be transferable by the Participant otherwise than by
will or under the applicable laws of descent and distribution; provided that the
Committee may, in the Option agreement or otherwise, permit transfers of Options
by gift or a domestic relations order to Family Members. In addition, no Award
shall be assigned, negotiated, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by
operation of law or otherwise), and no Award shall be subject to execution,
attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, negotiate,
pledge or hypothecate any Award, or in the event of any levy upon any Award by
reason of any attachment or similar process contrary to the provisions hereof,
such Award shall immediately become null and void.

ARTICLE IX.
                     TERMINATION, MODIFICATION AND AMENDMENT

         The Board at any time may terminate the Plan, and from time to time may
amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that any amendment which would (i)
increase the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan, (ii) lower
the minimum exercise price at which an Option may be granted or (iii) extend the
maximum term for Options granted hereunder shall be subject to the approval of
the Company's shareholders and no amendment made prior to the fifth anniversary
of the Plan Effective Date shall be or become effective without the consent of
the New York Superintendent of Insurance. No amendment, modification, or
termination of the Plan shall in any manner adversely affect any Option
theretofore granted under the Plan, without the consent of the Participant.

ARTICLE X.
                               GENERAL PROVISIONS

         10.1 No Right to Remain as a Director. The Plan shall not impose any
obligations on the Company to retain any Participant as a director nor shall it
impose any obligation on the part of any Participant to remain in service to the
Company.

         10.2 Investment Representation; Registration. If the Committee
determines that the law so requires, the holder of an Option granted hereunder
or the recipient of Shares in respect of any Share Award shall execute and
deliver to the Company a written statement, in form satisfactory to the Company,
representing and warranting that he is purchasing or accepting the Shares then
acquired for his own account and not with a view to the resale or distribution
thereof, that any subsequent offer for sale or sale of any such Shares shall be
made either pursuant to (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form

8

under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which Registration Statement shall
have become effective and shall be current with respect to the Shares being
offered and sold, or (ii) a specific exemption from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act, and that in claiming such exemption the
holder will, prior to any offer for sale or sale of such Shares, obtain a
favorable written opinion from counsel approved by the Company as to the
availability of such exemption. If at any time the Board shall determine in its
discretion that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares covered
by the Plan upon any national securities exchange or under any state or federal
law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is
necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the sale of
Shares under the Plan, no Shares will be delivered unless and until such
listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been
effected or obtained, or otherwise provided for, free of any conditions not
acceptable to the Company.

         10.3 No Right to Specific Assets. Nothing contained in the Plan and no
action taken pursuant to the Plan (including, without limitation, the grant of
any Award hereunder) shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind
or any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant, the
executor, administrator or other personal representative or designated
beneficiary of such Participant, or any other persons. To the extent that any
Participant or his executor, administrator, or other personal representative, as
the case may be, acquires a right to receive any payment from the Company
pursuant to the Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of an
unsecured general creditor of the Company.

         10.4 Rights as a Stockholder. A Participant shall have no rights as a
stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his Option or related to
Deferred Shares until he shall have become the holder of record of such Shares.

         10.5 Headings and Captions. The headings and captions herein are
provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the
Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.

         10.6 Controlling Law. The Plan shall be construed and enforced
according to the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to conflict of
laws.

         10.7 Indemnification. Each person who is or shall have been a member of
the Committee or of the Board shall be indemnified and held harmless by the
Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be
imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him in connection with or resulting from
any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he may be made a party or in
which he may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under
the Plan (in the absence of bad faith) and against and from any and all amounts
paid by him in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him
in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against
him; provided that he shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense,
to handle and defend the same before he undertakes to handle and defend it on
his own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive
and shall be independent of any other rights of indemnification to which such

9

person may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or
By-Laws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise.

                  10.8 Term of Plan. The Plan shall be effective upon its
adoption by the Board and approval by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, the
sole shareholder of the Company and by the New York Superintendent of Insurance.
The Plan shall continue in effect, unless sooner terminated pursuant to Article
IX, until no more shares are available for issuance under the Plan.

10

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.29>
 8
 y48170exv10w29.htm
 EX-10.29: AMENDMENT TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS

EX-10.29 

Exhibit 10.29

AMENDMENT TO RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS 

Pursuant to the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ),
MetLife, Inc. hereby amends each of your Restricted Stock Unit Agreements (the  Agreements ) as of
December 31, 2007, as follows (this  Amendment ):

1. Section 2(a) of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:

(a)  Long-Term Disability . In the event you qualify for long-term disability
benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an Affiliate for its
Employees, each of your Units will be due and payable in the form of Shares. Once this
provision applies, no other change of status described in this Section 2 (except the
provision regarding termination for Cause) will affect your Units, even if you subsequently
return to active service or your employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates
other than for Cause.

2. Section 2(f) of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:

(f)  Other Termination of Employment . Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 2 regarding change of status applies,
including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your termination without
Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or the termination of your employment by the Company or an
Affiliate without Cause, your Units will be forfeited immediately unless you are offered a
separation agreement by the Company or an Affiliate under a severance program. To the
extent your separation agreement becomes final, your Prorated Units will be due and payable
to you. The number of your  Prorated Units  will be determined by dividing the number of
calendar months, beginning with the month of the Grant Date, that have ended as of the end
of the month of the termination of your employment by thirty-six (36), multiplying the
result by the number of your Units, and rounding to the nearest whole number;  provided,
however , that if the date of the termination of your employment is prior to the first
anniversary of the Grant Date , then the number of your Prorated Units shall be zero (0).
Payment for each of your Units will be made in cash at a value equal to the Closing Price on
the Grant Date, and shall be rounded to the nearest one-hundred dollars ($100.00). If your
separation agreement does not become final, your Units will be forfeited.

3. Section 3 of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:

3.    Change of Control   . 

(a) Except as provided in Section 3(b), and unless otherwise prohibited under law or
by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if a Change of Control occurs, your
Units will be due and payable in the form of cash equal to the number of your Units
multiplied by the Change of Control Price.

(b) The terms of Section 3(a) will not apply to your Units if the Committee reasonably
determines in good faith, prior to the Change of Control, that you have been granted an
Alternative Award for your Units pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan. Any such Alternative
Award shall not accelerate the timing of payment or otherwise violate Code Section 409A, to
the extent such Code section is applicable to your Units.

4. Section 8 of each Agreement is restated in its entirety as follows:

8.    Timing of Payment  .

(a) To the extent applicable, this Agreement is intended to comply with Code Section
409A and shall be interpreted accordingly. If Shares are to be paid to you, you will
receive evidence of ownership of those Shares.

(b) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(a), it will be made upon your
qualification for long-term disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the
Company or an Affiliate for its Employees.

(c) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(b), it will be made upon your death.

(d) If payment is due and payable under Section 2(f), it will be made six (6) months
after the termination of your employment (or six (6) months after your  separation from
service  under Code Section 409A, if that is a different date).

(e) If payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that
causes payment to be due and payable is a  change of control  as defined under Code Section
409A, such sum shall be paid to you within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control. If
payment is due and payable under Section 3(a), and the Change of Control that causes payment
to be due and payable is not a  change of control  as defined under Code Section 409A, such
sum shall be paid to you at the time determined under Section 8(e).

(f) If payment is due and payable under the Standard Settlement Terms and you have
chosen to defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the
Company or an Affiliate, payment will be made at the time determined under that plan. If
payment is due and payable under the Standard Settlement Terms and you have not chosen to
defer payment under an applicable deferred compensation plan offered by the Company or an
Affiliate, payment will be made within thirty (30) days after the Period of Restriction for
your Units expires.

2 

5. Any capitalized word used in this Amendment is defined in the Plan or each Agreement.
This Amendment will be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of
Delaware, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. This
Amendment, the Agreements, and the Plan represent the entire agreements between you and the
Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding your Units and no other promises, terms, or
agreements of any kind regarding your Units apply. In the event any provision of this Amendment is
held illegal or invalid, the rest of the Amendment will remain enforceable. In no event will this
amendment be construed in a manner that would cause you to incur a penalty under Code Section 409A.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to execute this
Amendment.

METLIFE, INC.

By:

Gwenn L. Carr

Name 

Senior Vice President

Title 

/s/ Gwenn L. Carr

Signature 

3 

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.54>
 9
 y48170exv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54: RESOLUTIONS OF THE METLIFE, INC. BOARD OF DIRECTORS

EX-10.54 

Exhibit 10.54

December 11, 2007

ON MOTION, it was RESOLVED:

(1) 
       
     That the measures to be used to determine performance results for establishing the maximum
amount to be available for payment of awards under the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan
( AVIP ) for 2008 are approved substantially in form described in the memorandum attached as
Appendix A to these resolutions; 

(2) 
       
     That the Chief Executive Officer of the Company ( CEO ) shall be eligible for an AVIP award
for 2007 equal to one percent (1%) of the Company s net income excluding: (1) after-tax net
investment gains and losses, (2) after-tax adjustments related to net investment gains and
losses, (3) after-tax discontinued operations other than discontinued real estate, and (4)
preferred stock dividends, determined according to generally accepted accounting principles
( Net Operating Income Available to Common Shareholders ), subject to the maximum award limit
under AVIP;  provided, however , that the Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) shall
retain the ability, in its discretion, to reduce the amount of the award payable (including
reducing the amount payable to zero) based on such factors or considerations that the
Committee shall deem appropriate, including but not limited to the amounts that would have
been payable to the CEO, respectively, under the methodology applicable to other employees
under AVIP; and; 

(3) 
       
     That each of the Company s Officers subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than the CEO ( Section 16 Officers ), shall be
eligible for an AVIP award for 2008 equal to one-half of one percent (0.5%) of Net Operating
Income, subject to the maximum award limit under AVIP;  provided, however , that the
Committee shall retain the ability, in its discretion, to reduce the amount of the award
payable (including reducing the amount payable to zero) based on such factors or
considerations that the Committee shall deem appropriate, including but not limited to the
amounts that would have been payable to each of the Section 16 Officers under the methodology
applicable to other employees under AVIP; 

(4) 
       
     That if the Company s Net Operating Income is zero, neither the CEO nor any of the Section 16
Officers shall be eligible for any AVIP award for 2008; and 

(5) 
       
     That the Officers of the Company be and hereby are authorized in the name and on behalf of
the Company, to (a) take or cause to be taken any and all such further actions and to prepare,
execute and deliver or cause to be prepared, executed and delivered, and where necessary or
appropriate, file or cause to be filed with the appropriate governmental authorities, all such
other instruments and documents, including but not limited to all certificates, contracts,
bonds, agreements, documents, instruments, receipts or other papers, (b) incur and pay or
cause to be paid all fees and expenses and (c) engage such persons, in each case as such
Officer shall in that Officer s judgment determine to be necessary or appropriate to carry out
fully the intent and purposes of the foregoing resolutions and each of the transactions
contemplated thereby. 

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.57>
 10
 y48170exv10w57.htm
 EX-10.57: METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN

EX-10.57 

Exhibit 10.57 

METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN 

(Amended and Restated, Effective January 1, 2008)

METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company hereby amend and restate the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary
Savings and Investment Plan ( Plan ) effective January 1, 2008.

Article 1    Purpose of Plan and Construction 

The purpose of this Plan is to provide Company Contributions on behalf of employees and their
Beneficiaries whose Company matching contributions under the Savings and Investment Plan for
Employees of Metropolitan Life and Participating Affiliates ( Savings and Investment Plan ) are
reduced or eliminated solely because of the application of the limitations of sections 415(c)
and/or 401(a)(17) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ( Code ). This Plan shall be
construed and administered as a nonqualified deferred compensation plan as defined in section
409A(d)(1) of the Code that is intended to satisfy the requirements of Code section 409A(a)(2), (3)
and (4) and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.

Article 2    Definitions 

2.1  Administrative Participant  means any Participant in this Plan who is not classified by the
Company as a commissioned employee.

2.2.  Affiliate  means, except as otherwise provided in this Plan document, any corporation,
partnership, joint venture or other business entity which is considered to be a single employer
with the Company under Code   414(b) or (c).

2.3.  Beneficiary  means one or more persons designated by a Participant or otherwise determined
under Section 4.10 to receive that portion of the Participant s vested account balance which has
not been distributed as a result of his or her death.

2.4.  Commissioned Participant  means any Participant in this Plan who is compensated primarily by
commissions.

2.5.  Company  means any Participating Company, as defined under the Savings and Investment Plan.

2.6.  Default Commencement Date  means the date as of which the Participant s vested account
balance shall commence to be distributed in the absence of an election designating an alternative
commencement date. The Default Commencement Date shall be as follows:

(a) For purposes of Section 4.6, the Default Commencement Date shall be as soon as
administratively practicable following the date that the Participant has a Termination of
Employment (except that with respect to a Participant who is a Specified Employee, as soon as
administratively practicable following the date that is six months after the date that such
Participant has a Termination of Employment);

(b) For purposes of Sections 4.7 and 4.9, the Default Commencement Date shall be as soon as
administratively practicable following the date that constitutes the first anniversary of the date
on which an Administrative Participant has a Termination of Employment; and

(c) For purposes of Sections 4.8 and 4.10, the Default Commencement Date shall be the October
1 st  following the date of the Commissioned Participant s attainment of his or her
sixtieth (60 th ) birthday.

2.7.  Default Mode of Payment  means the Mode of Payment in which a Participant s vested account
balance is required to be distributed in the absence of a Mode of Payment Election. The Default
Mode of Payment shall be a single sum.

2.8  Deferral Period  means the period of years following a Participant s Termination of Employment
or other payment triggering event over which commencement of his or her vested account balance is
deferred prior to commencing distribution.

2.9.  Deferral Period Election  means a Participant s election to specify a Deferral Period for his
or her vested account balance under this Plan.

2.10.  Minimum Deferral Period  means the minimum period of time that a Participant may elect
following the later of (a) the Participant s Termination of Employment or other payment triggering
event (after taking into account the Default Commencement Date) or (b) the date that payment was
scheduled to commence under a valid election that had been made by the Participant, prior to the
commencement of distribution of his or her vested account balance. The Minimum Deferral Period
shall be as follows:

(a) For purposes of Sections 4.6 and 4.7, zero years; and 

(b) For purposes of Sections 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10, five years.

2.11.  Mode of Payment  means the optional form of distribution under which a Participant s vested
account balance becomes payable.

2.12.  Mode of Payment Election  means a Participant s election to designate a Mode of Payment for
his or her vested account balance under this Plan.

2.13.  Participant  means any employee of the Company eligible to participate in the Savings and
Investment Plan who is enrolled to contribute before-tax 401(k) contributions, Roth 401(k)
contributions and/or after-tax contributions to the Savings and Investment Plan equal to at least
3% of his or her compensation (as defined in the Savings and Investment Plan) and who either
satisfies the requirements of Article 3 or any former employee of the Company who continues to
maintain an account balance under this Plan.

2.14.  Plan  means the Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan.

2.15.  Plan Administrator  means Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

2.16.  Plan Year  means the calendar year.

2.17.  Savings and Investment Plan  means the Savings and Investment Plan for Employees of
Metropolitan Life and Participating Affiliates, a plan that is intended to satisfy the requirements
of sections 401(a) and (k) of the Code.

2.18.  Specified Employee  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(b) of the MetLife
Auxiliary Pension Plan. The procedure for identifying a Specified Employee contained in Section 4.4(b) of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan
is incorporated by reference as if the same were fully set forth herein.

2.19  Termination of Employment  means the Participant s death, retirement or other termination of
employment sufficient to constitute a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code  
409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(h)(1). In addition, a Participant shall be
treated as having experienced a Termination of Employment as of the

twenty-four-month anniversary
in which she or he commenced receiving disability benefits (both long-term and short-term) under
the Company s disability plans.

Article 3    Participation 

Each participant in the Savings and Investment Plan whose compensation exceeds the limitation
of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code and whose Company matching contributions under the Savings and
Investment Plan are reduced or eliminated because of the application of the limitations of (i)
section 415(c) of the Code; and/or (ii) section 401(a)(17) of the Code, shall be a Participant
under this Plan.

Article 4    Vesting and Payment of Benefits 

4.1  Company Contributions .

(a)  In General . Except as provided in subsection (b), for each Plan Year, the Company
shall contribute to this Plan, on behalf of each Participant, the amount of Company contributions
equal to the amount of Company matching contributions that would have been made to the Savings and
Investment Plan had the limitations of Sections 401(a)(17) and/or 415(c) of the Code not applied to the Participant s account under the Savings and Investment Plan.

(b)  Suspension for Savings and Investment Plan Withdrawals . Notwithstanding
subsection (a), no Company Contributions shall be made for the six-month period beginning on the
first day of the second month following the date that the Participant receives (1) a hardship
withdrawal of his or her 401(k) contributions under the provisions of the Savings and Investment
Plan or (2) a withdrawal of Company matching contributions under the provisions of the Savings and
Investment Plan.

4.2.  Vesting of Company Contributions . Company Contributions under this Plan shall vest in
accordance with the vesting schedule applicable to Company matching contributions under the Savings
and Investment Plan.

4.3  Elections and Tracking of Investment Performance . Subject to the Company s consent, a
Participant may make an election with respect to the investment allocation of future Company
contributions as well as existing balances. Such allocation shall be pegged to the performance of
one or more of the Core Funds under the Savings and Investment Plan (other than the NEF Frozen
Accumulation Account). No investment allocation election shall represent an actual investment in
any such fund, but shall merely reflect the performance of such fund. Thus, the Participant s
account balance under this Plan shall be adjusted for income, gains and losses in the same manner
as if such Participant had directed the investment of his or her account balance among one or more
of the aforementioned funds under the Savings and Investment Plan. The Participant s ability to
change the investment allocation of future contributions and existing balances shall be subject to
the same rules and restrictions as apply under the Savings and Investment Plan; however, no Participant shall have the right to: (i) exercise voting, tender or
exchange rights with respect to amounts treated as if they were invested in the MetLife Company
Stock Fund or (ii) receive any distribution from the Plan in a form other than cash. If a
Participant fails to specify the investment allocation of contributions to this Plan, then
earnings, gains and/or losses on such contributions shall be determined using the returns from the
Fixed Income Fund until changed by the Participant, Beneficiary or alternate payee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it will be within the discretion of the Company whether
contributions are actually invested according to each Participant s stated preferences.

4.4  Optional Modes of Payment Available .

(a)  Modes of Payment Generally Available . The Participant may elect to receive a
distribution of his or her vested account balance under this Plan in the following Modes of
Payment:

(1) A single sum; or

(2) A specified number of annual installments (but not less than two nor more than
fifteen).

The Participant s Mode of Payment Election shall specify the number of full years over which
his or her vested account balance shall be distributed to him or her. If the Participant inserts
one, she or he will be deemed to have elected to receive a distribution of his or her vested
account balance in the form of a single sum. If a Participant has failed to make a Mode of Payment
Election, she or he will be deemed to have elected to receive a distribution of his or her vested
account balance in the Default Mode of Payment. If the Participant has elected to receive his or
her vested account balance in the form of annual installments, the first such installment shall be calculated by dividing his or her vested account balance by the number of
installments elected. Each subsequent year s installment shall be calculated by dividing the
Participant s vested account balance by the number of remaining installments (i.e., the number of
installments contained in the Participant s Mode of Payment Election, reduced by one for each year
that has elapsed since the first year).

(b)  Cash-out of a Participant s Vested Account Balance . Notwithstanding any election
that a Participant has made under Sections 4.6(b), 4.7(b) or 4.9(b) or was deemed to have made
under Sections 4.6(a), 4.7(a) or 4.9(a), if such Participant s vested account balance under this
Plan does not exceed $20,000 as of the date of such Participant s Termination of Employment, such
Participant s vested account balance will be distributed in a single sum as

soon as
administratively practicable following his or her Termination of Employment (six months after the
date of his or her Termination of Employment, with respect to a Participant who is a Specified
Employee as of the date of his or her Termination of Employment).

(c)  Minimum Distribution . Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary,
a Participant who commenced minimum distributions of his or her vested account balance on or before
December 31, 2007, will continue to have such distributions calculated as provided under the
Savings and Investment Plan and paid to them in accordance with the existing schedule. For all
other Participants, payment of the vested account balance under this Plan will not be affected by,
or subject to, minimum distributions as described under section 401(a)(9) of the Code and the
treasury regulations thereunder.

4.5.  Deferral Periods Available under the Plan . The Participant may elect a Deferral
Period equal to a specified number of years, in full one-year increments with the minimum equal to
the Minimum Deferral Period and a maximum of ten years, except as otherwise provided in Sections 4.8(b) and 4.10(b). If a
Participant has made one or more prior elections, whether under the provisions of the Plan as in
effect prior to 2007, or in accordance with Section 4.6(b), 4.7(b), 4.8(b), 4.9(b) or 4.10(b), and
the sum of the Deferral Period Elections under all of such prior elections, applied in the
aggregate and the Minimum Deferral Period (that would apply if such Participant were able to make a
new election) would exceed ten years from the Default Commencement Date, such Participant shall not
be permitted to make any further elections under this Plan.

4.6.  Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution Prior to 2008 .

(a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance if No Election in Force . Unless a
Participant made an election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007, or makes
an election in accordance with subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2007 and prior to January 1,
2008, a Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in
the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date following the expiration
of the Minimum Deferral Period.

(b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .

(1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this
Plan to the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance
with the following timing requirements:

(A) If the Participant has not made a prior election under the terms of this
Plan as in effect prior to 2007 and such Participant makes an election in accordance
with this subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2007 but prior to January 1, 2008,
such election shall become effective immediately, unless such Participant has a
Termination of Employment during the same Plan Year in which such election was made,
in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, the Participant
will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested account balance in
accordance with subsection (a);

(B) If the Participant has made a prior election under the terms of this Plan
as in effect prior to 2007, and the Participant makes a new election on or after January 1, 2007 and prior to January 1, 2008, such election shall become
effective immediately, unless

(I) 
       
     such Participant has a Termination of
Employment and such election provides for distribution during the same
Plan Year in which such Participant has the Termination of Employment,
in which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, such
Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her
vested account balance in accordance with the prior election; or 

(II) 
       
     such election provides for commencement of the
time and mode of payment of such Participant s vested account balance
to be accelerated into the same Plan Year in which such Participant has
a Termination of Employment, in which case, such election shall become
invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a
distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with
the prior election. 

(C) Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 4.6 to the contrary, in no
event may a Participant make an election under this subsection (b) following the
date on which she or he has a Termination of Employment.

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If a
Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b) or has made a
prior valid election prior to January 1, 2007, in accordance with the terms of the Plan
which were then in effect, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4(b), distribution of
such Participant s vested account balance shall be made following the expiration of the Deferral Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in
the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of Payment Election.

4.7.  Administrative Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after 2007
but Prior to 2009 .

(a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance if No Election in Force . Unless an
Administrative Participant made an election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to
2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6, or makes an election in accordance with subsection (b) on
or after January 1, 2008 and prior to January 1, 2009, an Administrative Participant will be deemed
to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment,
payable as of the Default Commencement Date following the expiration of the Minimum Deferral
Period.

(b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .

(1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision in this
Plan to the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance
with the following timing requirements;

(A) If the Administrative Participant has not made a valid election under the
terms of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6, and
such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or
after January 1, 2008 but prior to January 1, 2009, such election shall become
effective immediately, unless such Participant has a Termination of Employment
during the same Plan Year in which such election was made, in which case, such
election shall become invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her vested
account balance in accordance with subsection (a);

(B) If the Administrative Participant has made a valid election under the
provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6
and such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or
after January 1, 2008 but prior to January 1, 2009, such election will become
effective immediately, unless:

(I) 
       
     Such Participant has a Termination of
Employment and such election provides for distribution during the same
Plan Year in which such Participant has a Termination of Employment, in
which case, such election shall become invalid. As a result, such
Participant will be eligible to receive a distribution of his or her
vested account balance in accordance with the prior election; or 

(II) 
       
     Such election provides for commencement of the
time and mode of payment of such Participant s vested account balance
to be accelerated into the same Plan Year in which such Participant has
a Termination of Employment, in which case, such election shall become
invalid. As a result, such Participant will be eligible to receive a
distribution of his or her vested account balance in accordance with
the prior election. 

(C) Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 4.7 to the contrary, in no
event may a Participant make an election under this subsection (b) following the
date on which she or he has a Termination of Employment.

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If
an Administrative Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this

subsection
(b) or has made a valid election under the terms of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or
in accordance with Section 4.6, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4(b), distribution
of such Participant s account balance shall be made following the expiration of the Deferral
Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified
in the Mode of Payment Election.

4.8.  Commissioned Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after 2007
but Prior to 2009 .

(a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance in Absence of Election . Unless a
Commissioned Participant makes an election prior to January 1, 2009 in accordance with subsection
(b), a Commissioned Participant will be deemed to have elected to receive his or her vested account
balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date, regardless of
whether or not she or he had previously experienced a Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, with respect to a Commissioned Participant who has attained the age of sixty (60) or
older as of October 1, 2008, such Participant s vested account balance under this Plan will be
distributed in the Default Mode of Payment as of October 1, 2009. If a Commissioned Participant
commences distribution of his or her vested account balance while she or he remains actively
employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under this Plan in
accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial distribution,
such additional contributions which are made during the Plan Year in which distributions commence
and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of
Employment shall be distributed in a single sum.

(b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .

(1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this
Plan to the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance
with the following timing requirements:

(A) Except with respect to a Commissioned Participant who had a Termination of
Employment prior to January 1, 2008, no prior election made by any Commissioned
Participant under the provisions of this Plan in effect prior to January 1, 2008
will be given effect on or after January 1, 2008. If a Commissioned Participant
makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2008
and prior to January 1, 2009, such election, if made no later than the September 30
of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which occurs the Default
Commencement Date, shall become effective as of the date it is made.

(B)  Commencement Date Election Requirements . If a Commissioned
Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection (b), such election
can provide for a commencement date as of the October 1 st  following such
Participant s attainment of a specified age, which shall in no event be earlier than
such Participant s attainment of age 55 or in no event later than such Participant s
attainment of age 70, provided that such Participant makes such election no later
than the September 30 th  of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan
Year in which she or he will attain the stated age.

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If a
Commissioned Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b),
distribution of such Participant s vested account balance shall be made as soon as
administratively practicable following the expiration of the Deferral Period specified in
the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of
Payment Election. If a Commissioned Participant commences distribution of his or her vested
account balance while she or he remains actively employed and Company contributions continue
to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every
five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions
which are made during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter
credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be
distributed as follows:

(A) to the extent that such Participant is receiving a single sum, such
additional amounts will be paid in a single sum; and

(B) to the extent that such Participant is receiving installment payments, such
additional amounts will be equally divided among and added to the number of
remaining unpaid installments as of such date. If all installments have been paid,
such additional amounts will be distributed to the Participant in a single sum.

4.9.  Administrative Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after
2008 .

(a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance if No Election in Force . Unless an
Administrative Participant made an election under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to
January 1, 2007 or in accordance with Sections 4.6 or 4.7, such Participant will be deemed to have
elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of
the Default Commencement Date.

(b)  Rules Governing Election of the Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .

(1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this
Plan to the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made in accordance
with the following timing requirements:

(A) If the Administrative Participant has not made a valid election under the
provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with Section 4.6
or 4.7, and such Participant makes an election in accordance with this subsection
(b) on or after January 1, 2009, such election shall become effective immediately;

(B) If the Administrative Participant has previously made a valid election
under the provisions of this Plan as in effect prior to 2007 or in accordance with
Section 4.6 or 4.7, and such Participant makes a new election on or after January 1,
2009, such election shall become effective immediately;

(C) Notwithstanding any provision in this Section 4.9 to the contrary, in no
event may a Participant make an election under this subsection (b) following the
date on which she or he experiences a Termination of Employment;

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Election . If an
Administrative Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b) or has made a valid election prior to January 1, 2007, in accordance with the terms
of the Plan which were then in effect, or in accordance with Section 4.6 or 4.7, except as
otherwise provided in Section 4.4(b), distribution of such Participant s vested account
balance shall be made as soon as administratively practicable following the expiration of

the Deferral Period specified in the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of
Payment specified in the Mode of Payment Election.

4.10.  Commissioned Participant s Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution after
2008 .

(a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance in Absence of Election . Unless a
Commissioned Participant makes an election on or after January 1, 2009, in accordance with
subsection (b) or in accordance with Section 4.8, a Commissioned Participant will be deemed to have
elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of Payment, payable as of
the Default Commencement Date, regardless of whether or not she or had previously experienced a
Termination of Employment. If a Commissioned Participant to whom this subsection (a) applies
remains actively employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his or her account under
this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after such Participant s initial
distribution, such additional contributions which are made during the Plan Year in which
distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to the Participant s account prior to his
or her Termination of Employment shall be distributed in a single sum.

(b)  Rules Governing Election of Time and Form of Benefit Distribution .

(1)  Limitations on Timing of Elections . Notwithstanding any provision of this
Plan to the contrary, all elections under this subsection (b) shall be made no later than
the later of: (i) the September 30 of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in
which occurs the Default Commencement Date (if such Participant has not made a prior
election under this subsection (b) or in accordance with Section 4.8) or (ii) the September
30 of the Plan Year immediately preceding the Plan Year in which payment under such

prior
election was scheduled to commence. Any election under this subsection (b) shall become
effective immediately.

(2)  Commencement of Distribution in Accordance with Participant Election . If a
Commissioned Participant has made a valid election in accordance with this subsection (b),
distribution of such Participant s vested account balance shall be made as soon as
administratively practicable following the expiration of the Deferral Period specified in
the Deferral Period Election, payable in the Mode of Payment specified in the Mode of
Payment Election. If a Commissioned Participant commences distribution of his or her vested
account balance while she or he remains actively employed and Company contributions continue
to be made to his or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every
five years after such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions
which are made during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter
credited to the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be
distributed as follows:

(A) to the extent that such Participant is receiving a single sum, such
additional amounts will be paid in a single sum; and

(B) to the extent that such Participant is receiving installment payments, such
additional amounts will be equally divided among and added to the number of
remaining unpaid installments as of such date. If all installments have been paid,
such additional amounts will be distributed to the Participant in a single sum.

4.11.  In-Service Withdrawals and Loans Prohibited . Notwithstanding any provision in this
Plan to the contrary, except to the extent provided in Section 4.8 or 4.10, no benefits under this

Plan will be eligible for distribution as an in-service withdrawal by a Participant or as a loan to
any Participant.

4.12.  Distributions after Participant s Death . In the event of the Participant s death,
regardless of whether benefits had commenced prior to the date of the Participant s death and
regardless of any previous election, then a single sum shall be paid to the Participant s
Beneficiary (determined in accordance with Section 4.13) as soon as administratively practicable
following the date on which the Plan Administrator is duly notified of the Participant s death.

4.13.  Beneficiary . Except as provided below, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the
beneficiary designated by the Participant under the Savings and Investment Plan. However, if the
Participant filed a beneficiary designation under this Plan, such designation shall supersede the
Participant s beneficiary designation under the Savings and Investment Plan and upon the
Participant s death, benefits shall be payable to the primary Beneficiary(ies) designated under
this Plan. If there is more than one beneficiary under the Savings and Investment Plan or more
than one primary Beneficiary under this Plan and the beneficiary designation does not specify the percentage of the Participant s benefit to be paid to
each such Beneficiary, each Beneficiary shall share equally in the benefits under the Plan. If one
or more Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the surviving Beneficiary(ies) shall share
equally in the deceased Beneficiary s portion of the Plan benefits. If all primary Beneficiaries
predecease the Participant, benefits shall be payable to the contingent Beneficiary(ies) upon the
Participant s death. If there is more than one contingent Beneficiary(ies), and the contingent
Beneficiary designation does not specify the percentage of the Participant s benefit to be paid to
each such Beneficiary, each contingent Beneficiary shall share equally in the benefits under the
Plan. If one or more contingent Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, the surviving contingent
Beneficiary(ies) shall share

equally in the deceased contingent Beneficiary s portion of the Plan
benefits. If all contingent Beneficiaries predecease the Participant, or if there is no
beneficiary designation in effect on the date of the Participant s death, benefits will be payable
to the Participant s surviving spouse or, in the absence of such spouse, to the Participant s
estate.

4.14.  No Duplication of Benefits . Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the
contrary, no similar benefit that is paid under this Plan shall be paid under any other deferred
compensation plan(s) created by the Company or any of its affiliates.

Article 5    Unfunded Plan 

The Plan is completely unfunded, and payment of benefits is supported only by the general
assets of each Company. This Plan is entirely separate from the Savings and Investment Plan and
participation in this Plan gives a Participant no right to any funds or assets of the Savings and
Investment Plan. The fact that contracts or certificates of the Company may be distributed to
recipients of benefits under the Savings and Investment Plan in discharge of the Company s obligations thereunder shall in no way entitle a Participant in this Plan to receive any
such contract or certificate in discharge of the Company s obligations hereunder.

Article 6    Nontransferability of Participant s Interest 

Except for any payments to a person other than the Participant, to the extent of an election
by such person which is reflected in, or made in accordance with the provisions of a domestic
relations order, as defined in Code   414(p)(1)(B), no Participant shall have any power or right to
transfer, assign, mortgage, commute or otherwise encumber any of the benefits payable hereunder,
nor shall such benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or

judgments, or be
transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or otherwise.

Article 7    Effect of Taxes 

In making payments under this Plan, the Company shall withhold any Federal, state or local
income or other taxes it determines that it is legally obligated to withhold. In the event the
payments received by the Participant result in greater tax burdens (whether income, estate or other
tax burdens) than they would if such payments had been able to be received under the Savings and
Investment Plan, the Company shall have no obligation to reimburse the Participant for such greater
tax burdens.

Article 8    Administration of the Plan 

8.1.  Plan Administrator s Interpretation Binding 

The Plan Administrator is empowered to take all actions it deems appropriate in administering
this Plan. In the event of a difference of opinion between a Participant or Beneficiary(ies) and
the Plan Administrator with respect to the meaning or application of the provisions of the Plan,
the Plan Administrator s final interpretation shall be set forth in writing to the Participant and
shall be binding and conclusive. However, once a Change of Control (as defined in Article 11) has
occurred, this Article 8 shall no longer apply to differences of opinion between the Plan
Administrator and a Participant regarding the application of Article 11 of this Plan to a
Participant or with regard to any rights or benefits protected under Article 11 of this Plan or
otherwise accrued prior to the Change of Control including the vesting thereof.

8.2.  Claims and Review Procedure; Limitations of Time for Submitting Claims and Suits
Challenging Denial of Claims .

(a)  Claims and Review Procedure . Claims for benefits and appeals of denied claims
under the Plan shall be administered in accordance with Section 503 of ERISA, the regulations
thereunder (and any other law that amends, supplements or supersedes said Section of ERISA), and
the procedures adopted by the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, as appropriate. The claims
procedures referenced above are incorporated herein by reference. The Plan shall provide adequate
notice to any claimant whose claim for benefits under the Plan has been denied, setting forth the
reasons for such denial, and afford a reasonable opportunity to such claimant for a full and fair
review by the Plan Administrator of the decision denying the claim. Benefits will be paid under
the Plan only if the Plan Administrator, or its delegate, determines in its discretion that the
applicant is entitled to them.

(b)  Limitations of Time for Submitting Claims and Suits Challenging Denial of Claims .
No suit to recover benefits under this Plan shall be brought more than six months following the
expiration of the claims and review procedures described in subsection (a).

Article 9    Governing Law 

To the extent not inconsistent with Federal law, the validity of the Plan and its provisions
shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.

Article 10    Amendment and Termination of Plan 

10.1  Amendment of the Plan . Except to the extent required by law, the Plan
Administrator may amend this Plan at any time without the consent of any Participant or of any
other person. However, any such amendment will not affect adversely the benefit entitlements of:

(a) 
       
     Any Participant receiving benefits under the Plan at or prior to the time of
such amendment, or 

(b) 
       
     Any employee who is a Participant in the Savings and Investment Plan to the
extent of the account balance under this Plan prior to the time of such amendment.
However, amendments may be made to all other aspects of this Plan including, but not
limited to: 

(i) 
       
     Amendments impacting the timing under which the Participant s
entire account balance is paid, or, 

(ii) 
       
     Amendments impacting the optional forms of distribution
available for payment of the Participant s entire account. 

Notwithstanding the above, any amendment or group of amendments made effective on the same
date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan benefits for active Plan
Participants and former Plan Participants by ten million dollars or more in the aggregate, as
determined in good faith by the Plan Administrator, shall take effect only after the action is
authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

10.2  Termination of the Plan . The Plan Administrator may elect to terminate this Plan
subject to the following requirements:

(a) The termination of the Plan does not occur proximate to a downturn in the financial health
of the Company;

(b) The Company terminates and liquidates all methods, programs and other arrangements
maintained by the Company or any Affiliate providing for deferrals of compensation other than at
the election of the service provider, within the meaning of Reg.   1.409A-1(c)(2)(B);

(c) No payments in liquidation of the Plan are made within 12 months of the date the Company
takes all necessary action to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan other than payments that
would be payable under the terms of the Plan if the action to terminate and liquidate the Plan had
not occurred;

(d) All payments are made within 24 months of the date the Company takes all necessary action
to irrevocably terminate and liquidate the Plan; and

(e) The Company does not adopt a new plan providing for deferrals of compensation other than
at the election of the service provider, within the meaning of Reg.   1.409A-1(c)(2)(B) if the
Participant participated in both plans, at any time within three years following the date that the
Company takes all necessary action to irrevocably terminate and liquidate this Plan. However, such termination will not adversely affect the benefit entitlements of:

(1) Any Participant receiving benefits under the Plan at or prior to the time of such
termination; or

(2) Any employee who is a Participant in the Savings and Investment Plan to the extent
of the account balance under this Plan prior to the time of such termination.

10.3  Effect of Change of Control . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10.1 above,
or any other provision of this Plan, on or after a Change of Control (as defined in Article 11),

(a) Amendments can no longer be made to or have any impact upon Article 8, Section 10.3 of
Article 10 or Article 11 of this Plan; and

(b) Participants who:

(i) Accrued rights or benefits under this Plan prior to a Change of Control (as
defined in Article 11), and,

(ii) Whose rights or benefits are not vested at the time of the Change of Control

cannot have the vesting schedule under Section 4.2, applicable on the day prior to the
Change of Control, amended with regard to such rights or benefits, and cannot forfeit, or
be deprived of, their right to vest in these accrued benefits due to any amendment or
termination of this Plan.

Article 11.  Change of Control 

11.1.  Definitions .

(a)  Change of Control . For the purposes of this Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be
deemed to have occurred if:

(i) Any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined
Voting Power of the Corporation s securities;

(ii) Within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of the Corporation at
the beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least
a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board ) or the board of
directors of any successor to the Corporation;  provided ,  however ,
 that  any director elected or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of
the Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for
purposes of this Section 11.1(a)(ii);

(iii) The stockholders of the Corporation approve a merger, consolidation, share
exchange, division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
the Corporation which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the
consummation of which the stockholders of the Corporation immediately

prior to such
Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (A)
in the case of a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (B) in the
case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (C) in the case of a division or a
sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation
which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the
consolidated assets of the Corporation immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

(iv) Any other event occurs which the Board declares to be a Change of Control.

(b)  Corporation . For the Purposes of this Article,  Corporation  means MetLife, Inc.

(c)  Person . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Person  shall have
the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as supplemented by
Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the meaning of Rule
13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act);  provided ,  however ,  that   Person  shall
not include (A) the Corporation or any Affiliate, (B) the MetLife Policyholder Trust (or any
person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to control
the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (C) any employee benefit plan (including an
employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by the Corporation, Company or any Affiliate.

(d)  Voting Power . For purposes of the definition of Change of Control,  Voting Power 
shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the
votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and  Voting Securities 
shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors
of a company.

(e)  Affiliate . For the purposes of this article, an  Affiliate  shall mean any
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity which directly, or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, the Corporation.

(f)  Cause . For the purposes of this article,  Cause  means either:

(i) The Participant s conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a felony, or,

(ii) Any act or acts of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Participant s part which
results or is intended to result in material damage to the business or reputation of
MetLife.

(g)  Good Reason . For the purposes of this article,  Good Reason  means any of:

(i) Any reduction by the Corporation or an Affiliate in the Participant s base salary
rate below the rate in effect immediately before the date of the Change of Control;

(ii) Any relocation by the Corporation or an Affiliate of the Participant s usual base
work location to any other office or location more than 50 miles from the Participant s
usual base work location immediately prior to a Change of Control, except for travel
reasonably required in the performance of the Participant s responsibilities;

(iii) If the Participant is a party to an Employment Continuation Agreement with the
Corporation or an Affiliate, any circumstance or occurrence constituting  Good Reason  under
that Employment Continuation Agreement; or

(iv) The failure of the Corporation or an Affiliate to pay the Employee s base salary
or employee benefits as required by law.

11.2.  Vesting and Other Rights on and After a Change of Control Subject to Conditions 
In the event that:

(a) There is a Change of Control as defined in Section 11.1(a) of this Article, and,

(b) On the date of the Change of Control or on a date before the second anniversary of the
Change of Control, a Participant in this Plan:

(i) Is involuntarily terminated from employment by the Corporation or any Affiliate
(other than directly in connection with a transfer of employment to or from the
Corporation or any Affiliate) without Cause, or

(ii) Voluntarily terminates employment with the Corporation or any Affiliate for Good
Reason,

then the Participant s benefits and rights accrued as of the Change of Control under the Savings
and Investment Plan and this Plan will vest immediately under this Plan, notwithstanding any other
provision of the Savings and Investment Plan or this Plan, or any amendment or termination of this
Plan taking place on or after a Change of Control.

These account balances will be paid under this Plan according to the ordinary distribution
rules of this Plan. The ordinary distribution rules of this Plan are described in Article 4 as it
existed immediately prior to the Change of Control.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this restated Plan to be executed in its name and
behalf this 20 th  day of December, 2007, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

/s/ Margery Brittain

Witness

/s/ Bonita Haskins  

</EX-10.57>

<EX-10.63>
 11
 y48170exv10w63.htm
 EX-10.63: AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE TO THE METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

EX-10.63 

Exhibit 10.63

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities 
that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

Amendment Number One to the 
MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan

The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) is hereby amended as
follows:

1. Section 10.3.9 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

10.3.9 
       
     Payment(s) of a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be made on the
earlier of the date payable or after any delays in payment required under Legal
Deferral Requirements have passed. A Participant who is a  Specified Employee  as
determined under the provisions of the MetLife Auxiliary Pension Plan who has elected
to commence distributions upon separation from service or at retirement from active
service shall have his/her payments delayed until the earlier of (a) the date six
months after the Participant s separation from service, or (b) the date of death of the
Participant. In no event shall MetLife, Inc., any Affiliate, or the Plan have any
liability to anyone on account of payment being made later than the date payable due to
administrative considerations or otherwise. 

2. Section 22.2 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

22.2 
       
      Cash Incentive Compensation  shall mean compensation payable in the form of
cash under the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Compensation Plan, the Institutional
Regional Executive Plan, the International Long Term Performance Compensation Plan, the
Long Term Performance Compensation Plan (and, in the case of each incentive
compensation plan, any successor plan(s)), payments of the nature of incentive
compensation to an 090 Employee, or any other compensation payable in the form of cash
(other than salary) to any Eligible Participant to the extent deemed covered by this
definition from time to time by the Plan Administrator in its discretion, but (for
greater clarity) shall not include any payments in lieu of compensation payable under
any such plans contingent on a separation agreement, release, or similar agreement. 

3. This amendment shall be effective on December 31, 2007.

In witness where, the Plan Administrator has executed this amendment on the date noted below.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ Margery Brittain 

Date:  December 13, 2007 

Witness:  /s/ Bonita Haskins 

</EX-10.63>

<EX-10.68>
 12
 y48170exv10w68.htm
 EX-10.68: NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

EX-10.68 

Exhibit 10.68

The MetLife Non-Management 
Director Deferred Compensation Plan 

December 2007

Important Notices 

This Program Description provides an overview of the MetLife Non-Management
Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ). It is also the official plan
document that legally governs the Plan. This Plan document will govern in
every respect and instance, and replaces and supersedes prior Plan documents.

This Program Description may be updated from time to time to implement changes
in the Plan. Fund performance data will be updated periodically. These
updates will constitute part of the Prospectus distributed with respect to the
Plan.

The Plan Administrator may amend, alter or terminate the Plan in accordance
with its terms at any time and for any reason. The Plan was effective on
January 1, 2005, and the Plan will continue in effect until it is amended,
suspended, or terminated according to its terms. This Plan was designed to
replace the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors and
Article VII of the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, respectively,
beginning with 2005 compensation deferrals; earlier deferrals will remain
governed by the earlier plans.

MetLife, Inc. will have the obligation to pay amounts deferred under the Plan.
MetLife, Inc. s obligations are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended. Since this is an unfunded plan, your rights or claims against assets
or property are no greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of
MetLife, Inc. Your deferrals may gain or lose value over time; see  Investment
Tracking For Your Deferred Cash Accounts  and  MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts 
below. Shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock paid under the Plan may be shares
of treasury common stock or authorized but unissued common stock.

This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities 
that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
The date of this Prospectus is December 2007.

2 

Plan At-a-Glance 

Purpose 

To provide eligible directors with the opportunity to defer their cash and MetLife Stock 

compensation, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state income taxes on such 

compensation. 

Eligibility 

Directors of MetLife, Inc. who are not employees of MetLife, Inc. or any of its affiliates. 

Election Options 

Deferral amount 

Investment tracking funds (for cash deferrals) 

Distribution date 

Number of distribution payments 

Annual Enrollment 

The 2008 annual enrollment will be open December 6, 2007   December 28, 2007. 

Period 

Enrollment Period 

Newly-appointed directors may make a deferral election for fees payable in the calendar 

for New Directors 

year in which they are elected, but must do so by the earlier of the next Directors meeting 

attended for which they earn fees or the 30th day after appointment. 

Investment Tracking 

Your deferred cash compensation accounts will be credited with gains and losses reflecting 

the performance of the investment tracking funds and indices you select. 

Investment Tracking 

Limited to a total of six times per year for future deferrals and existing account balances. 

Fund Changes 

Changes in Amounts 

None allowed, except for hardship. 

Deferred 

Form of Distribution 

Your deferred cash compensation will be paid in cash at the end of the deferral period. 

Your deferred awards of MetLife Stock will be paid in the form of such stock, with imputed 

reinvested dividends, at the end of the deferral period. 

Distribution: 

Number 

Lump-sum payment or up to 15 annual installments. 

Timing 

Beginning upon earlier of 60 days after termination of service as a director or on a 

designated future date. 

Hardship 

Immediate lump-sum payment (availability strictly limited). 

Changes to Distribution Date and/or Number of Payments 

You may change the distribution date to a date at least five
years later than the date you originally selected, and/or change the number of payments.  Your change will only be
effective if you submit your request no later than one year before the earlier of the end
of your service as a director or the date of payment you originally selected.

Taxes 

Deferred compensation is taxable as ordinary income at the time of distribution. 

Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified plan is not permitted. 

Beneficiary 

Upon your death, any existing account balances will be paid to your designated beneficiary 

or beneficiaries in a lump sum. 

Plan Funding 

The Plan is a non-qualified, unfunded plan.  Your accounts are maintained for 

record-keeping purposes only. 

3 

MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan 

The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) allows eligible
directors to defer receiving a portion of their annual retainer, committee chair fees, and meeting
fees, if any, payable in cash or shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock ( MetLife Stock ) for
services in 2005 and thereafter, thereby deferring payment of federal and most state income taxes
until a later date when the deferred payments are received. Participation in the Plan is
completely voluntary.

Eligibility 

Members of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the  Board ) who are not employees of MetLife,
Inc. or any of its affiliates ( Non-Management Directors ) are eligible to participate. In this
Program Description,  you  refers to a director who is eligible to participate in the Plan.

Making a Deferral Election 

Prior to each year in which you will provide services as a Non-Management Director, you may defer
all or a portion of fees payable as compensation for such services. Deferrals begin with the first
fees payable for such services during a calendar year and end with the last fees payable during the
calendar year. Designations do not carry over from year to year; you must make a new designation
each year.

When you are elected to the Board, you may defer all or a portion of your fees payable in that
calendar year by submitting a deferral election before the earlier of (1) the first meeting that
you attend for which you earn fees; or (2) the thirtieth day after you become eligible to
participate in the Plan.

The MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan is a non-qualified plan that is
unfunded and subject to the risks described in this document. Amounts credited to an account are
solely for record-keeping purposes. The Plan is not subject to full protection under the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).

To defer your cash compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:

The percentage of your cash fees you want deferred into a Deferred Cash Account (if you
choose to defer any of your cash fees, your deferral must equal at least $10,000.00); 

The investment tracking funds that will be used to adjust the value of that Deferred Cash
Account; and 

A future distribution date and number of payments for that Deferred Cash Account (paid in
cash). 

4 

To defer your MetLife Stock compensation, you need to complete a deferral election form specifying:

The percentage of your MetLife Stock fees you want deferred into a MetLife Deferred Stock
Account; and 

The future distribution date and number of payments for your MetLife Deferred Stock
Account. 

Your deferral election form must be submitted during the enrollment period. If you submit an
election form that does not specify when payment is to be made, payment will be made upon the
termination of your service as a Non-Management Director. If you submit an election form that does
not specify the number of installments in which payment should be made, payment will be made in a
single lump sum.

Before making your elections, you may wish to consult a tax or personal financial advisor regarding
all of the ramifications of deferral of compensation under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and
all other requirements under law for deferral of income taxation ( Legal Deferral Requirements ).

All deferrals are subject to the terms of this Plan.

Income Taxes 

Compensation is not subject to current taxation under federal and most state income tax laws at the
time it is deferred. Deferred compensation to Non-Management Directors is not subject to Social
Security or Medicare taxes, but it is subject to tax under the Self-Employment Contributions Act
(SECA) when the amounts are includible in your income. You should consult with a tax or personal
financial advisor to determine whether you must pay SECA on these amounts when received.

Deferral Amounts 

During the annual enrollment period, you may elect to defer all or a portion of your fees payable
in the following year for services as a director of MetLife, Inc. If you choose to defer any of
your cash fees, you must defer at least $10,000.

Once you elect your deferral amount, you may not change it. You may, however, suspend deferrals in
cases of extreme hardship as provided in the Plan. See  Hardship Exceptions,  below.

Deferred Compensation Accounts 

If you defer any or all of your cash compensation, a Deferred Cash Account in your name for that
year s deferrals will be established for record-keeping purposes. If you defer any of your MetLife
Stock compensation, a MetLife Deferred Stock Account in your name for that year s deferrals will be
established for record-keeping purposes. You will receive account statements annually.

Your accounts will be credited effective on the date on which your fees would have been payable had
you not elected to defer receipt of such fees.

5 

Investment Tracking For Your Deferred Cash Accounts 

Investment tracking funds are used as a device for adjusting the value of your Deferred Cash
Accounts from the time contributions are made until the time payments are distributed from your
Deferred Cash Accounts based on fund performance. Your deferred cash account will not actually be
invested in the funds.

Each investment tracking fund reflects the investment performance of the actual fund or index,
including any management fees and/or other expenses that apply to the fund. Gains or losses,
measured each day the relevant stock market is open, will be credited or debited from your account,
in effect  mirroring  the performance of the specified fund or index, determined on a Total Return
basis.  Total Return  reflects the change (positive or negative) in the value of your account,
including dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis. If the aggregate performance of the funds
mirrored by the investment tracking funds you choose is positive, the value of your account will
increase; if it is negative, the value of your account will decrease.

You may change your allocation among investment tracking funds    either with regard to future
deferrals or your existing account   at any time during the year by accessing the Plan s website
at  www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife  (click on Change Allocations) or by calling Benefit Plan
Services, Inc. (BPSI) at 1-800-340-8151. Keep in mind, you can make no more than six fund
allocation changes per year. For this purpose, all changes submitted on the same day will count as
a single change. You can elect to allocate your account among one or more of the investment
tracking funds in 5% increments. If you have provided BPSI with your e-mail address, you will
receive confirmation of your changes shortly after they are made.

Allocations into and out of the MetLife Common Stock Fund must be pre-cleared with the Corporate
Secretary in accordance with the MetLife Insider Trading Policy.

Following is a list of the investment tracking funds currently available in the Plan. 
The Plan, however, may be amended by the Plan Administrator to change, eliminate or replace any
investment tracking fund or index at any time. See the  Plan Administrator  section for more
information.

Actively Managed Funds  
       
      Market Indexes  

MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund

S P 500    Index 

Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund

Russell 2000    Index 

Oakmark Fund   

MSCI EAFE    Index 

MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund

Lehman Brothers    Aggregate Bond Index 

Oakmark International Fund

Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index 
MSCI Emerging Markets Index SM  

Single-Stock Fund 

MetLife Common Stock Fund * 

*  
       
     This investment tracking fund may be used to adjust the
value of any or all of your Deferred Cash Compensation Account. Values are
tracked in this investment tracking fund using the value and performance of
MetLife Stock, but payment is made in cash. Your MetLife Deferred Stock
Account, which consists of deferred MetLife Stock payments, is paid out in the
form of MetLife Stock. 

6 

MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts 

Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will reflect the number of shares of MetLife Stock you
deferred, plus imputed reinvested dividends (on the same basis as such dividends are paid on actual
shares of MetLife Stock).

The value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will depend on the price of MetLife Stock, which
is affected by market conditions and other factors, such as declared dividends. As a result, the
value of your MetLife Deferred Stock Account is anticipated to have a relatively high risk profile.

Your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts will be appropriately adjusted (as determined by the
Governance Committee of the Board, or its successor) in the event of any MetLife Stock dividend,
MetLife Stock split, recapitalization (including, but not limited, to the payment of an
extraordinary dividend), merger, consolidation, combination, or spin-off affecting MetLife, Inc.
capitalization, distribution of MetLife, Inc. assets to holders of MetLife Stock (other than
ordinary cash dividends), exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change.

The performance of MetLife Deferred Stock Awards will be identical to that of the MetLife Common
Stock Fund, and is labeled the  MetLife Deferred Shares Fund  in the  Total Return Historic Fund  
Index Performance by Calendar Year  chart.

The Distribution Dates 

For each of your Deferred Cash Accounts and your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts separately, you
may choose to have your distributions begin either (1) on a specific date no less than three years
after the year of deferral (for example: for payments attributable to services performed in 2008,
the date you may choose may not be earlier than 2012), or (2) upon the termination of your service
as a Non-Management Director of MetLife, Inc. (the date of your termination of service will be
determined in accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements). If you choose to receive your account
on a specific date, your account will be paid to you on the earlier of (a) the date you selected,
or (b) on the date of the termination of your service as a director.

Once you have designated a distribution date, you cannot change it except as described below under
 Changing the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments. 

Number of Payments 

You may elect to receive each of your account balances in either a lump-sum payment or up to 15
annual installments. For each of your Deferred Cash Accounts, each annual installment will be a
fraction of the account s cash value with one being the numerator and the number of payments
remaining being the denominator. For each of your MetLife Deferred Stock Accounts, each annual
installment will be a fraction of the number of shares of MetLife Stock represented in the account,
with one being the numerator and the number of payments remaining being the denominator and
disregarding any fraction of a share until the last installment. For example, if you elect to
receive 10 annual payments, the first payment is equal to 1/10 th  of the account; the
second payment is equal to 1/9 th  of the account; and so on until final payment is made.
For purposes of Legal Deferral Rules, any payment option selected under this plan will be
considered to be a single payment form of benefit.

7 

Form of Payments 

All payments from your Deferred Cash Accounts (including portions invested in the MetLife Common
Stock Fund) will be made in cash. All payments from your MetLife Deferred Stock Account will be
made in MetLife Stock, except that fractional shares will be paid in cash at the Closing Price of
MetLife Stock on the date of payment. * 

Taxation of Payments 

Generally, payments are subject to federal, state and local tax income taxes in the year you
receive the amounts. Rollover to an IRA, qualified plan or non-qualified plan is not permitted.

Changing the Distribution Date And/Or Number of Payments 

For each of your Deferred Cash Account and your MetLife Deferred Stock Account for a given year,
you may make changes only once, at which time you may change either or both: (1) the date you have
selected to receive payment of your deferred compensation to a date at least five (5) years later
than your original selection; and/or (2) the number of payments you have chosen to receive (your
change may increase or decrease the number of payments). You must make all changes to any
particular account at the same time;  provided, however , that your changes are effective if
you submit them no later than one year before the earlier of the original date you had selected for
payment or the date your service as a Non-Management Director ends, and otherwise will not be
effective .  All changes will be effective to the extent consistent with Legal Deferral
Requirements.

Payment to Beneficiaries 

If you die before your distributions begin or are completed, the balance in your accounts will be
paid as a single lump sum to your beneficiary. If you have not designated a beneficiary, or your
beneficiary (or beneficiaries) die(s) before you do, the balance in your accounts will be paid to
your estate.

You may designate an individual, entity, trustee, or your estate as your beneficiary, and you may
change your beneficiary at any time. Each beneficiary designation will apply to all of your
deferrals under the Plan, and will supersede your previous beneficiary designations. Unless or
until you submit a new beneficiary designation form, your last beneficiary designation (if any)
under the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors (or, if you have not designated
a beneficiary under that plan, the beneficiary you have designated under the MetLife, Inc. 2000
Directors Stock Plan, if any) will apply under this Plan.

*  
       
      Closing Price  means the closing price of a share of
MetLife Stock as reported in the principal consolidated transaction reporting
system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other recognized quotation
system on which the trading prices of shares of MetLife Stock are quoted at the
relevant time) on such date. In the event that there are no transactions of
MetLife Stock reported on such tape (or such other system) on such date,
Closing Price shall mean the closing price on the immediately preceding date on
which MetLife Stock transactions were so reported. 

8 

You may designate your beneficiary(ies) during each annual enrollment period. If you wish to
change your beneficiary designations during the year you may access the website
www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife (by clicking on Beneficiary Detail) or contact BPSI at
1-800-340-8151 and they will send you a form on which you can make your new beneficiary elections.

Loans 

No loans may be taken from your accounts.

Hardship Exceptions 

In cases of extreme hardship, and consistent with legal requirements for deferral of income
taxation, the Plan Administrator may suspend deferrals or make payments to you, reducing the value
of your account. However, the total amount suspended and advanced cannot exceed the amount
required to satisfy the financial consequences of the hardship and tax withholding requirements.

Unfunded, Unsecured Obligations of MetLife, Inc. 

Deferrals under the Plan are unfunded and unsecured obligations of MetLife, Inc. Your rights are
those of a general unsecured creditor of MetLife, Inc. The Plan is intended to be designed and
administered in complete accordance with Legal Deferral Requirements, but in no event will MetLife,
Inc., any affiliate, or the Plan be liable for any taxes, penalties, or other losses on account of
the Plan or its administration failing to comply with Legal Deferral Requirements.

Assignment 

No assignment or pledge of the right to receive the payment of amounts deferred or any other rights
under the Plan may be made.

Qualified Domestic Relations Orders ( QDROs ) 

Deferred compensation will be distributed or attached to the extent required by a 
QDRO.

Plan Administrator 

The Plan is administered by a Plan Administrator who may establish, amend or rescind rules and
regulations relating to the Plan. The Plan Administrator of this Plan is also the Plan
Administrator of the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for U.S. Employees. The Employee Benefits
Committee of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company appoints the Plan Administrator of the
Retirement Plan, who serves until such time as the Committee appoints a new Plan Administrator.

To the extent consistent with law, including Legal Deferral Requirements, the Plan Administrator
may amend, modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan at any time and for any reason. The Plan
Administrator may not amend, modify or terminate the Plan in a way that will reduce the amount that
has been accrued in your deferred compensation account prior to the effective date of the
amendment, modification or termination.

9 

The determinations and interpretations of the Plan made by the Plan Administrator shall be final,
binding, and conclusive for all purposes under the Plan. The Plan Administrator may prescribe
forms for participants to take action authorized or allowed under the Plan and may appoint agents
and consult legal counsel and other professionals to assist in administration of the Plan. The
Plan Administrator may, in his or her discretion, adjust the value of a deferred compensation
account on a basis other than as prescribed in deferral or reallocation elections, including but
not limited to the use of investment tracking funds other than those selected by the participant.
The Plan Administrator will administer any claims under the Plan by following Section 503 of ERISA,
any applicable regulations, and any other procedures the Plan Administrator adopts.

The Plan Administrator may reject or reform a deferral election on any lawful basis, and may
conform any provision of the Plan to Legal Deferral Requirements. Where consistent with such
requirements, the Plan Administrator may pay deferred compensation regardless of the participant s
election for payment at another time.

Investment Tracking Funds and Indices   Additional Information 

Each investment tracking fund and index mirrors the performance of the actual fund or index to
which it refers. Following are descriptions and historic performance data for the actual funds and
indices, determined on a Total Return basis. Total Return means the change in price or value, plus
dividends (if any) on a reinvested basis, less any management fees or expenses that apply under the
actual fund.

There is no guarantee that any of the funds will achieve its objectives or increase in value.
Except to the extent you choose the investment tracking fund for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund,
your deferrals may lose value. Each actively managed fund has investment management fees and/or
other expenses associated with it. The descriptions below are derived from information provided by
the funds and other sources deemed to be reliable by the Plan Administrator.

Actively Managed Funds 

MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund:  The fund seeks to generate a predictable return through a specified
interest rate, with preservation of original principle invested. The Fixed Income Fund crediting
rate is re-evaluated during the year. Changes may be made to the rate, up or down as appropriate,
based on market conditions and the performance of the Fixed Income Fund Assets. The fund invests
in several MetLife issued GIC (Guaranteed Investment Contracts) Alternatives, which consist of
bonds, international securities, public utilities and similar corporate issues. Participants
receive a blended rate of return based on a weighted average of all the separate interest rates
payable under the various underlying assets.

10 

Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund:  This fund (the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio of the Met
Investor Series Trust) is a mutual fund investment choice available under various variable
insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and its affiliates. The fund
seeks to provide high current income and the opportunity for capital appreciation to produce a high
total return. Under normal circumstances, the fund invests substantially all (at least 80%) of its
net assets in bond, debenture and other fixed income securities. The fund normally invests
substantially all of its assets in high-yield and investment-grade debt securities. It may also
invest in securities convertible into common stocks. Up to 80% of the fund s assets may be
invested in high-yield/high-risk debt securities ( junk bonds ). In no event will the Portfolio
invest more than 10% of its gross assets at the time of investment in debt securities which are in
default as to interest or principal. At least 20% of the fund s assets must be invested in any
combination of investment-grade debt securities, U.S. Government securities, and cash equivalents.
The fund may also invest up to 20% of its net assets in equity securities including common stocks,
preferred stocks, convertible preferred stocks, warrants and similar instruments. The fund may
invest up to 15% of its assets in credit default swaps. The fund may also invest up to 20% of its
net assets in debt and equity securities primarily traded in foreign countries. The fund attempts
to invest in securities selling at reasonable prices in relation to the adviser s assessment of its
potential value.  A, D  

Oakmark Fund         :  This fund is a mutual fund and seeks to achieve long-term capital
appreciation following a value style by investing primarily in the common stocks of U.S. companies.
 A,   D,   E,   F,   G,   H 

MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund:  This fund is an individually managed fund that seeks to
generate long-term growth of capital by investing in the stocks of smaller U.S. companies with
strong growth potential. The fund seeks to outperform the Russell 2000 Growth    Index which
measures the performance of small company stocks with lower market capitalization. Assets are
diversified in the stocks of small companies which generally have market capitalization under $2
billion. Small companies generally reinvest their profits back into the company to support
future growth and therefore normally pay little or no dividends. Historically, however, their
stock prices have had more potential to increase than those of larger companies. The fund s
growth strategy focuses on companies that show an established pattern of business success,
typically including accelerated growth, strong balance sheets, unique market positions and
excellent management. The fund normally holds approximately 40 to 60 individual stocks. G

Oakmark International Fund:  This mutual fund seeks to achieve long-term capital appreciation
following a value style by investing primarily in the common stocks of non-U.S. companies. The
fund may invest in mature markets (e.g., Japan, Canada, United Kingdom) and in less developed
markets (e.g., Mexico, Brazil, South Korea). Ordinarily, the fund will invest in the securities of
at least five countries outside the U.S. There are no geographic limits on the fund s foreign
investments, but the fund does not expect to invest more than 35% of its assets in securities of
companies based in emerging markets.  B, E, F, G, H 

Market Indexes 

S P 500          Index:  This index measures the stock performance of 500 leading companies in
leading industries of the U.S. economy and is one of the most widely recognized and used benchmarks
of U.S. equity performance.  C,   E,   H 

11 

Russell 2000          Index:  This index measures stock performance of 2,000 smaller U.S.
companies with market capitalization under $5.2 billion as of September 30, 2007.  C,G,H 

MSCI EAFE          Index:  The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia, Far East
Index is a benchmark for developed market equity performance, excluding the United States and
Canada. As of June 2007, the MSCI EAFE Index consisted of the following 21 developed market country
indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong,
Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.  B, E, F, G 

Lehman Brothers          Aggregate Bond Index:  This index covers the U.S. dollar denominated,
investment-grade, fixed-rate, taxable bond market of SEC registered securities. The index includes
bonds from the Treasury, Government-Related, Corporate, Mortgage Backed Securities (agency
fixed-rate and hybrid adjustable rate mortgage pass-throughs), asset-backed securities and
commercial mortgage-backed securities sectors. U.S. Agency Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgage
securities were added to the index in April 2007. Lehman Brothers refers to this index as the
Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index. A, B 

Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index:  The Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Master II Index
tracks the performance of below investment-grade U.S. dollar-denominated corporate bonds publicly
issued in the U.S. domestic market.  A,D  

MSCI Emerging Markets Index   SM   :  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is designed to measure
equity market performance in global emerging markets. As of June 2007, the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index consisted of the following 25 emerging market country indices: Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia,
Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and
Turkey.  B, E, F, G 

Single-Stock Fund 

MetLife Common Stock Fund:  The performance of this fund will depend on the price of MetLife, Inc.
common stock, which is affected by market conditions and other factors, such as declared dividends.
Like other individual stock funds, this fund is anticipated to have a relatively high risk
profile. The performance of this fund also includes the value of reinvested dividends on MetLife,
Inc. common stock, if any.

A   
       
      Bond and other fixed-income securities involve both credit risk and market risk
which includes interest rate risk. Credit risk is the risk that the security s issuer will
not pay the interest, dividends or principal that it has promised to pay. Market risk is the
risk that the value of the security will fall because of changes in market rates of interest
or other factors. Interest rate risk reflects the fact that the values of fixed-income
security tend to fall as interest rates rise. When interest rates go down, interest earned
on fixed-income securities will tend to decline. 

B  
       
     Foreign securities pose additional risks that are not associated with U.S.
domestic issues, such as changes in currency exchange rates and different governmental
regulations, economic conditions and accounting standards. 

C   
       
      Invests in growth stocks, the prices of which may be more sensitive to changes in
current or expected earnings than the prices of other stocks. Growth stocks may not
perform as well as value stocks or the stock market in general. 

D   
       
      Lower rated high yield, high risk securities generally involve more credit risk.
These securities may also be subject to greater market price fluctuations than lower yielding,
higher rated debt securities. 

E   
       
      Invests in the common stock of large capitalization companies. These investments
may not be able to attain the growth rates as high as those of successful smaller
capitalization companies, especially during extended periods of economic expansion. 

F   
       
      The common stocks of medium-sized companies may be more volatile than those of larger,
more established companies. 

G   
       
      Investments in small capitalization and emerging growth companies involve greater than
average risk. Such securities may have limited marketability and the issuers may have limited
product lines, markets and financial resources. The value of such investments may fluctuate more
widely than investments in larger, more established companies. 

12 

H   
       
     Invests in stocks that tend to trade at lower prices relative to their fundamental
financial characteristics and are therefore considered undervalued. Value stocks can perform
differently than other categories of stocks (e.g., growth stocks) and can continue to be
undervalued by the market for long periods of time. 

13 

Total Return 
Historic Fund   Index Performance by Calendar Year  
As of September 30, 2007

These figures are past performance and are not an indication of future performance. Note: Unit
values fluctuate and amounts received upon distribution may be more or less than deferrals. Current
performance may be lower or higher than the performance figures quoted. More information regarding
the performance of the investment tracking funds may be found at the  Plan Information  link
located on your participant account Home page at www.benefitplanservices.com/metlife.

1  
       
     All performance shown for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund and the MetLife SIP Small
Company Stock Fund are net of investment management fees and other expenses. Both funds have been
available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 1998. Returns in the MetLife SIP Fixed
Income Fund are credited to participants  balances by crediting a daily interest factor that
produces the effective annual return that is declared for the fund. The effective annual interest
rate for the MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund is 5.15% effective January 1, 2007. 

2  
       
     The Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Fund (Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio of the Met
Investors Series Trust, Class A shares) is a mutual fund investment choice available under various
variable insurance contracts issued by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and its affiliates. The
Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond Portfolio of the Metropolitan Series Fund was merged into the Lord
Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio after the close of business on April 26, 2002. Performance for the
Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio includes performance of the Loomis Sayles High Yield Bond
Portfolio prior to April 27, 2002, and performance of the Lord Abbett Debenture Portfolio after
April 26, 2002. All performance is shown net of the Lord Abbett Bond Debenture Portfolio s
investment management fees and other expenses. 

3  
       
     The Oakmark Fund and the Oakmark International Fund are mutual funds. All performance
is shown net of investment management fees and other expenses. The Oakmark Fund and Oakmark
International Fund have been available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 1998. 

4  
       
     The S P 500 Index Fund has been available as a tracking fund in the Plan since January
1, 2001. The MetLife SIP Common Stock Index Fund was available in the Plan from January 1, 1998
through December 31, 2000. The MetLife SIP Common Stock Index Fund was converted to the S P 500
Index Fund after the close of business on December 31, 2000. 

14 

5  
       
     The Russell 2000 Index has been available as a tracking fund in the Plan since January
1, 2001. Returns on amounts that were formerly in the Nasdaq tracking fund prior to March 1, 2007
are not reflected in the Russell 2000 Index returns 

6  
       
     The Nasdaq Composite Index was made available as tracking fund in the Plan since
January 1, 2001 and was eliminated as a tracking fund at the close of business on February 28,
2007. The  YTD  column reflects returns from December 31, 2006 through February 28, 2007.
Investment-tracking on participants  accounts was done using the Total Return measure (the
percentage change in the unit prices, plus the impact of reinvested dividends) for all periods
shown, except for 2004 returns which reflect the Total Return measure and for the 2003 return,
which reflects the Price Return Measure. Total Return information on the Nasdaq Composite Index
was not available prior to 2004. Investment-tracking for periods prior to January 2005 was done
using the Price Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, without reinvested
dividends). The preceding sentence applies only to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for
Outside Directors, which provided for deferral of compensation prior to January 2005; performance
charts in the program descriptions for elections that were offered under those plans reflected the
Price Return measure. 

7  
       
     The MSCI EAFE Index and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index have been available as
tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 2001. The name of the MSCI EMF Index tracking fund has
been changed to MSCI Emerging Markets Index to reflect the corresponding change of name in this
MSCI market index. 

8  
       
     Investment-tracking on participants  accounts will be done using the Total Return
measure (the percentage change in the unit price, plus the impact of reinvested dividends) for all
funds, including the S P 500 Index, Russell 2000 Index, MSCI EAFE Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets
Index tracking funds. Returns in this chart reflect the Total Return measure for all periods shown
for all funds. Investment-tracking for periods prior to January 2005 was done using the Price
Return measure (the percentage change in the unit price, without reinvested dividends) for the S P
500 Index, Russell 2000 Index, MSCI EAFE Index, and MSCI Emerging Markets Index tracking funds. The
preceding sentence applies only to the MetLife Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors,
which provided for deferral of compensation prior to January 2005; performance charts in the
program descriptions for elections that were offered under those plans reflected the Price Return
measure. 

9  
       
     The Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index (Lehman Brothers refers to this index as the
Lehman Brothers U.S. Aggregate Index), and Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index have been
available as tracking funds in the Plan since January 1, 2001. 

10  
       
     The MetLife Deferred Shares Fund has been available as a tracking fund since May 1,
2001. The Performance data is obtained from MetLife, Inc. Returns reflect the MetLife stock price
(MET), including reinvested dividends, as reported by MetLife, Inc. 

11  
       
     The MetLife Common Stock Fund was made available as a tracking fund for participants
since November 2003. The Performance data is obtained from MetLife, Inc. Returns reflect the
MetLife stock price (MET), including reinvested dividends, as reported by MetLife, Inc. 

15 

PROSPECTUS INFORMATION 

In connection with the obligations of MetLife, Inc. under the Plan, the following constitute the
prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:

1. 
       
     The information set forth in this Program Description; 

2. 
       
     Any other written documents delivered to participants updating or revising the information in
item 1 above. Those documents will contain a legend indicating that they constitute a part of
the prospectus covering the obligations being offered as permitted by the Plan; 

3. 
       
     Each of the following documents filed by MetLife, Inc. with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the  Commission ), which are incorporated by reference in this prospectus: 

a) 
       
     MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006; 

b) 
       
     All other reports filed by MetLife, Inc. with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, since December 31, 2006; and 

c) 
       
     All documents subsequently filed by MetLife, Inc. pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14
and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, prior to the filing of a
post-effective amendment which indicates that all securities offered have been sold or
which de-registers all securities then remaining unsold. 

You may obtain a copy of the above filings described in items 1 and 2, at no cost, by calling BPSI
at 1-800-340-8151. Filings described in item 3 and any other documents MetLife, Inc. provides to
its shareholders may be obtained, at no cost, at www.metlife.com (by clicking on Investor
Relations) or by calling 1-800-649-3593. You may also request copies of any of the above documents
by writing to the MetLife Corporate Secretary, 200 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10166-0188.

16 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this MetLife Non-Management Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and
restated effective January 1, 2005, is approved.

Page 17 

</EX-10.68>

<EX-10.70>
 13
 y48170exv10w70.txt
 EX-10.70: GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTORS' DEFERRED SAVINGS PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 2002

EXHIBIT 10.70

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                GENERAL AMERICAN
                             LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
                        DIRECTORS' DEFERRED SAVINGS PLAN

                                                                            2002
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

CONTENTS:  Overview ....................................................   2

           Eligibility .................................................   2

           Eligible Compensation .......................................   2

           Investment Funds ............................................   3

           Payouts and Distribution ....................................   3

           Changes in Investment Elections
           and/or Contribution Amounts .................................   4

           Security ....................................................   4

           Tax Status ..................................................   5

           Beneficiaries ...............................................   5

           Attachment -- Payouts and Distribution ......................   6

           Attachment -- Investment Account Information ................   7

--------------------------------------

                                   QUESTIONS?

                           Nonqualified Plan Services
                                 Sandra Lukowsky
                     Phone: (877) 855-NQPS (6777), prompt 3
                               Fax: (314) 444-0428
                           E-mail: slukowsky@genam.com

                     --------------------------------------

                                       1

THE FOLLOWING FACT SHEET IS A SUMMARY OF THE MAIN PROVISIONS OF THE GENERAL
AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTORS' DEFERRED SAVINGS PLAN ("PLAN"). THE
OFFICIAL AND CONTROLLING PROVISIONS OF THIS PLAN ARE CONTAINED IN THE PLAN
DOCUMENT. YOU MAY REQUEST A COPY OF THE PLAN FROM NONQUALIFIED PLAN SERVICES. IN
CASE OF DIFFERENCES, THE OFFICIAL PLAN DOCUMENT ALWAYS PREVAILS. THE PLAN IS
SUBJECT TO CONTINUED COMPLIANCE WITH IRC REQUIREMENTS.

OVERVIEW:                  The Plan is a nonqualified deferral plan that
                           provides you a tax-advantaged opportunity to
                           voluntarily defer your retainer and meeting fees for
                           receipt in the future. The Plan also permits you to
                           allocate your deferred fees into an attractive array
                           of hypothetical investment options.

                           IN GENERAL, YOUR FUNDS UNDER THIS PLAN WILL NOT
                           BECOME AVAILABLE TO YOU UNTIL YOU RETIRE, RESIGN (OR
                           OTHERWISE TERMINATE FROM THE BOARD), IN A SPECIFIC
                           FUTURE YEAR YOU SELECT, AT DEATH OR AT DISABILITY.
                           ALTHOUGH YOUR DEFERRALS UNDER THIS PLAN MAY BE HELD
                           IN A RABBI TRUST, YOU WILL BE AN UNSECURED GENERAL
                           CREDITOR OF THE COMPANY AS TO YOUR BENEFIT IN THE
                           EVENT OF BANKRUPTCY OR INSOLVENCY. IN ADDITION, THE
                           COMPANY RETAINS THE RIGHT TO AMEND, OR TERMINATE THIS
                           PLAN IN ITS SOLE DISCRETION AT ANY TIME.

ELIGIBILITY:               You may participate if you are a non-employee member
                           of the Company's Board of Directors.

ELIGIBLE                   You may defer up to 100% of your Board retainer and
COMPENSATION:              meeting fees; minimum deferral, $2,000. Your annual
                           election to defer is irrevocable, so consider your
                           election carefully.

2

INVESTMENT FUNDS:          You can allocate your deferral contributions in 5%
                           increments among twelve (12) hypothetical investment
                           funds. Summaries are contained in "Investment Account
                           Information," attached to this Fact Sheet. The twelve
                           hypothetical investment options currently available
                           are:

                           o  MetLife SIP Fixed Income Fund, currently paying 7%

                           o  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund

                           o  Oakmark Fund

                           o  MetLife SIP Small Company Stock Fund

                           o  Oakmark International Portfolio

                           o  S&P 500 Index

                           o  Russell 2000

                           o  NASDAQ Composite Index

                           o  MSCI-EAFE Index

                           o  Lehman-Brothers Aggregate Bond Index

                           o  Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II

                           o  MSCI Emerging Market Free Index

                           PRINCIPAL IS NOT GUARANTEED AND YOUR DEFERRALS ARE
                           NOT ACTUALLY INVESTED IN THESE ACCOUNTS, BUT WILL
                           REFLECT THE PERFORMANCE OF THESE ACCOUNTS AS IF THEY
                           WERE INVESTED IN THEM.

PAYOUTS &                  You may choose one of two distribution elections: (1)
DISTRIBUTIONS:             Termination or (2) a Specific Future Year not later
                           than the year you turn age 72. Termination means your
                           separation from Board service for any reason (e.g.,
                           retirement or resignation). Plus, payouts or
                           distributions may occur at your death, disability and
                           in cases of "unforeseen circumstances." Your elective
                           options and other distribution occurrences are
                           explained in "Payouts & Distributions," attached to
                           this Fact Sheet. Distributions will be a fraction of
                           your balance, with one as the numerator and the
                           remaining installments as the denominator (Example: 5
                           annual installments equal to 1/5, 1/4, 1/3, 1/2,
                           balance of account).

3

CHANGES IN INVESTMENT      You may change investment and savings decisions or
ELECTIONS AND/OR           transfer money among the various hypothetical
CONTRIBUTION AMOUNTS:      investment accounts by contacting:

                                           Nonqualified Plan Services
                                                 Sandra Lukowsky
                                     Phone: (877) 855-NQPS (6777), prompt 3
                                               FAX: (314) 444-0428
                                           E-mail:slukowsky@genam.com

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
YOU CAN MAKE THIS CHANGE:                          AS OFTEN AS:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       
Transfer existing funds                 Once every month, effective the
                                        end of the day the request is
                                        received, if received before the
                                        close of the market for that day or
                                        as of the next business day, if
                                        received after the close of the
                                        market for that day.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Change your investment elections        Once every month, effective the day the
for future savings                      request is received.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Increase your deferral election         Once a year in the 4th quarter,
                                        effective January 1st

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reduce your deferral election           Once a year in the 4th quarter,
                                        effective January 1st

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Stop your deferral election             At any time, effective with the next
                                        fee payment

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Resume deferral election                Once a year in the 4th quarter,
                                        effective January 1st
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SECURITY:                  The Company has set up a so called "rabbi-trust"
                           (grantor trust), which may hold, invest and reinvest
                           the deferrals you make under this Plan. The Company
                           also anticipates acquiring corporate insurance
                           contracts and placing them in the trust to support
                           the Company's financial obligations and enhance the
                           security of this Plan. HOWEVER, UNDER CURRENT LAW IT
                           IS NOT POSSIBLE TO PROTECT THESE ASSETS FROM THE
                           CLAIMS OF THE COMPANY'S GENERAL CREDITORS IN THE
                           EVENT OF COMPANY BANKRUPTCY OR INSOLVENCY.

4

TAX STATUS:                Under current tax law, your retainer and meetings
                           fees are treated as self-employment income and are
                           subject to special rules, governing non-employee
                           directors, as to self-employment (SECA) taxes. For
                           your Board fees after 1990, there will be no federal
                           income taxation until you receive a distribution of
                           your deferral. There are several states, however
                           (notably Pennsylvania and New Jersey) that do not
                           recognize deferral of income and may impose state
                           income tax on your deferral contributions. At that
                           time, your deferral distribution will also be subject
                           to Social Security and Medicare taxes. Your
                           distributions are also "wages" for purposes of the
                           Social Security retirement income test and will be
                           included in earned income in the year received. This
                           could result in a reduced Social Security benefit for
                           you if distributed before age 70.

                           NOTE: The Internal Revenue Service requires your
                           deferral elections (as to the amount, and the timing
                           and form of distributions) to be irrevocable for any
                           one year. You can change your future elections, but
                           once you have made an election for a particular year
                           it cannot be changed.

BENEFICIARIES:             You may name anyone you desire to be the beneficiary
                           or beneficiaries of your account balance under this
                           Plan by completing the Beneficiary Designation
                           Form(s) contained in your enrollment kit. Your
                           beneficiary designations have important estate
                           distribution and estate/inheritance tax consequences.
                           You are encouraged to consult with your own legal
                           counsel in selecting your beneficiary or
                           beneficiaries.

5

PAYOUTS & DISTRIBUTIONS

DISTRIBUTION OF
                          EVENT                      ACCOUNT BALANCE
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------
                                          
                 Termination                 Up to 15 annual installments
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

PARTICIPANT      Fixed Future Year           Up to 15 annual installments
ELECTION         (Not later than the year
OPTIONS          you turn age 72)
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

                 Disability                  Up to 15 annual installments
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

                 Death                       No distribution begun: Up to
                                             15 annual installments.
                                             Distribution begun: Balance of
                                             payments due.
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------
OTHER
OCCURRENCES      Loans                       Are prohibited in nonqualified
                                             plans
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

                 Unforeseen Financial        Amount necessary to relieve
                 Circumstances               hardship only
                                             (Plan Committee Approval)
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

                 Non-hardship Withdrawal     Will not be permitted
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

                 Small Accounts              Lump Sum at Plan
                 (Less than $50,000          Committee's discretion
                 balance)
                 ------------------------    -----------------------------------

NOTE:    The timing and form of your distribution election must be made prior to
         fees being earned. However, you will be given the ability to change the
         form of distribution (but not the timing) in the calendar year prior to
         (but not less than 60 days prior to) the year of distribution. Under
         your two election options and in the event of your disability, you can
         select up to 15 annual installments. Termination means separation from
         Board service (except death or disability) whether the separation is
         voluntary or involuntary, including retirement. In the event of your
         death, your beneficiary can select up to 15 annual installments if no
         distribution of your account is underway. If an account distribution is
         underway, your beneficiary will receive the balance of the payments
         due.

6

INVESTMENT ACCOUNT INFORMATION

     The value of your deferral will be determined by the performance of this
     array of hypothetical Investment Funds. Your deferral account will be
     credited with the value of the particular fund or funds you select, and
     will continue to be credited with the value until your account is fully
     distributed. Please remember that your accounts are hypothetical in nature.
     No monies are actually invested in your name in the funds you select. You
     will be a general unsecured Company creditor as to your benefit in the
     event of bankruptcy or insolvency.

ACTIVELY MANAGED FUNDS

METLIFE SIP FIXED INCOME FUND

     This portfolio seeks to achieve the highest possible current income
     consistent with the preservation of capital and predictable growth through
     a guaranteed interest rate by investing in Guaranteed Interest Contracts or
     similar contracts.

LOOMIS SAYLES BOND FUND

     This portfolio seeks to achieve high total return through current income
     and capital appreciation, by investing primarily in debt securities
     including convertibles. At least 65% of its total assets will normally be
     invested in bonds. Up to 35% of its assets may be invested in securities of
     below investment-grade quality, and up to 20% of assets may be invested in
     preferred stocks. SEE NOTE 1, on next page.

OAKMARK FUND

     This portfolio seeks to achieve high total return through long-term growth
     of capital appreciation by investing primarily in equity securities. Up to
     25% of its total assets may be invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers,
     but no more than 5% of assets are expected to be invested in emerging
     markets.

METLIFE SIP SMALL COMPANY STOCK FUND

     This portfolio seeks to achieve high total return through long-term growth
     of capital appreciation by investing in the stocks of small U.S. companies
     with strong growth potential. SEE NOTE 2, on next page.

OAKMARK INTERNATIONAL PORTFOLIO

     This portfolio seeks to achieve high total return through long-term growth
     of capital appreciation by investing in the stocks of international equity
     securities of mature markets, less developed markets, and in selected
     emerging markets. There are no limits on the geographic asset distribution.
     At least 65% of its total assets will normally be invested in non-U.S.
     issuers. SEE NOTE 3, on next page.

7

MARKET INDEX OPTIONS

     The investment objective of each of these funds is to match the performance
     of its index.

S&P 500 INDEX

     An index of the 500 largest capitalized stocks in the United States that is
     widely recognized as a guide to the overall health of the U.S. stock
     market.

RUSSELL 2000(R)

     This Index measures stock performance of 2000 smaller U.S. companies with
     market capitalization under $1.5 billion. SEE NOTE 2.

NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX

     A market capitalization-weighted index that is designed to represent the
     performance of the National Market System which includes over 5,000 stocks
     traded only over-the-counter and not on an exchange. SEE NOTE 4.

MSCI-EAFE INDEX(R)

     The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia, Far East
     Index; a widely recognized benchmark of the world stock markets (excluding
     the United States). SEE NOTE 3.

LEHMAN-BROTHERS AGGREGATE BOND INDEX

     A benchmark index made up of the Lehman Brothers Government/Corporate Bond
     Index, Mortgage-Backed Securities Index, and Asset-Backed Securities Index,
     including securities that are investment-grade quality or higher; have at
     least one year to maturity, and have an outstanding par value of at least
     $100 million.

MERRILL LYNCH US HIGH YIELD MASTER II

     This Index is composed of below grade debt securities, including
     convertibles. SEE NOTE 1.

MSCI EMERGING MARKET FREE INDEX

     The MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index measures the performance of stocks of
     companies in emerging countries in four major regions: Asia, Latin America,
     Eastern Europe and the Middle East/Africa. SEE NOTE 3.

There is no guarantee that any Fund will achieve its objective.

Note 1 -  Lower rated high yield, high-risk securities generally involve more
          credit risk. These securities may also be subject to greater market
          price fluctuations than lower yielding higher rated debt.

Note 2 -  Investments in small capitalization and emerging growth companies
          involve greater than average risk. Such securities may have limited
          marketability and the issues may have limited product lines, markets
          and financial resources. The value of such investments may fluctuate
          more widely than investments in larger more established companies.

Note 3 -  International stocks contain additional risks that are not associates
          with U.S. domestic issues, such as changes in currency exchange rates,
          different governmental regulations, economic conditions and accounting
          standards.

Note 4 -  This index is weighted in technology issues. The technology industry
          can be significantly affected by obsolescence, short product cycles,
          falling profits, and prices, and competition from new market
          participants. A choice that is weighted in one sector is more volatile
          than those that diversify across many industry sectors.

8

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.81>
 14
 y48170exv10w81.htm
 EX-10.81: AMENDMENT NUMBER SIXTEEN TO THE MPTA

EX-10.18 

Exhibit 10.81 

AMENDMENT NUMBER SIXTEEN TO 
THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended as
follows:

1. Section 1.4.11 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

1.4.11 Job Elimination:  Job Elimination  means the Company s or Subsidiary s determination
that an Employee s position has been or will be eliminated because of a Company or Subsidiary
staffing adjustment or other organizational change, expense reduction considerations, office
closings or relocations (including but not limited to adjustments in the number of staff in a
department or unit or the elimination of all or some of the functions of a department or unit),
in which the Employee will not be replaced by another person in the same position, except where
the Employee was, as of or immediately before the Date of Discontinuance of Employment, on a
leave of absence or otherwise in inactive status, including but not limited to periods for which
disability benefits are paid, for a consecutive period of more than one year (i.e., does not
return from leave or inactive status by the first anniversary of the beginning of the leave or
inactive status) and is not returning immediately upon the conclusion of either (a) leave under
the Family and Medical Leave Act or other law providing legally-protected leave, or (b) leave
granted by the Company or Subsidiary as a reasonable accommodation of medical limitations.

2. Section 4.2 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

4.2 Time of Payment. If a Participant s Separation Agreement is final by the Payment
Deadline, Severance Pay and any other amounts offered to the Participant contingent on a final
Separation Agreement (other than as provided in an award agreement under the MetLife, Inc. 2005
Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan) shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum after the
Participant s Separation Agreement is final, and on or before the Payment Deadline. If a
Participant s Separation Agreement is final after the Payment Deadline, Severance Pay shall be
paid in cash to the Participant in a lump sum in the calendar year specified in the Separation
Agreement. For this purpose, the  Payment Deadline  shall be March 15 of the calendar year
after the earlier of (i) the date the Separation Agreement was offered to the Participant, (ii)
the Participant s Date of Discontinuance of Employment, or (iii) the date of the Participant s
separation from service determined under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, to the extent that
date differs from the Participant s Date of Discontinuance. If a Participant s Separation
Agreement is final, amounts offered to the Participant contingent on a final Separation
Agreement as provided in an award agreement under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan shall be paid to the Participant at the time prescribed in such award
agreement.

3. Section 11.1.03 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

11.1.03  Change of Control Participant  shall mean any Employee who prior to the second
anniversary of a Change of Control:

(a) is involuntarily terminated from employment for any reason other than solely for Gross Cause; or

(b) suffers a Constructive Termination.

Provided, however , that no employee who has entered into a written employment
contract with MetLife, Inc., the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate, or who is an Executive
as defined in the MetLife Executive Severance Plan, in each case as of the time of the
employee s termination of employment, shall be a Change of Control Participant. For purposes of
determining who is a Change of Control Participant, the Company or Subsidiary shall not
conclusively determine the classification of Employee in its sole and absolute discretion.

4. Section 11.5 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:

11.5 Modification of Payments. In the event that any of the payments or benefits under this
Plan to a Participant would be an Excess Parachute Payment as defined in Section 280G of the
Code, and would thereby subject the Change of Control Participant to any excise tax, and the net
after-tax benefit that the Participant would receive by reducing payments and benefits under
this Plan to the maximum amount which may be paid or provided to the Change of Control
Participant without the Change of Control Participant becoming subject to any excise tax as a
result of all payments or benefits due to the Change of Control Participant is greater than the
net after-tax benefit the Executive would receive if the full amounts due under this Plan were
paid to the Change of Control Participant, then the Change of Control Severance Pay payable to
the Change of Control Participant shall be reduced (but not below zero) so that the Change of
Control Severance Pay and all other payments or benefits due to the Change of Control
Participant do not exceed the amount of the Payment Cap. In making any and all determinations
under this Section 11.5, the same assumptions and analyses shall be applied as are applied under
Section 3(c)(iii) and (iv) of the MetLife Executive Severance Plan.

5. Appendix B is amended and restated in its entirety as stated in the appendix to this
amendment.

6. This amendment shall be effective on December 31, 2007.

In witness where, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto
duly authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By:  /s/ Debra Capolarello 

Date: :  12-12-07 

Witness: :  /s/ Judith N. Eidenberg 

2 

APPENDIX
TO AMENDMENT NUMBER SIXTEEN TO 
THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

APPENDIX B TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE 
FOR OFFICERS

SEPARATION AGREEMENT, WAIVER, AND GENERAL RELEASE 

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding which has been reached
relative to the cessation of your (   ) employment with MetLife, Inc. or an affiliate thereof, as
the case may be (such employer,  MetLife ). It is fully agreed and understood as follows:

1. You agree that you release and discharge MetLife, its subsidiaries, and its affiliates,
including but not limited to MetLife, Inc. (collectively,  the Company ) from any and all claims,
demands, actions, liability, damages, back pay, attorneys  fees, or rights of any and every kind or
nature which you have against the Company arising out of arising out of or related to the
discontinuance of your employment by MetLife, including claims arising under the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act, as amended. You agree to waive your rights, if any, under Section 1542 of the
California Civil Code, which states   A  GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE
CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH
IF KNOWN BY HIM /HER  MUST HAVE MUTUALLY AFFECTED HIS /HER  SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR,  and your
rights, if any, under the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act. This Agreement does
not affect any rights that you may have arising out of events that occur after you have executed
this Agreement.

2. In consideration for the release set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement, MetLife, Inc.
agrees to (a) pay you the sum of  $       ,  less legally-required withholding for taxes
(the  Severance Pay ), in a lump sum; (b) provide you with outplacement services as described more
fully in an exhibit to this Agreement. These payments and services are in additional to anything
of value to which you are already entitled. Severance Pay will be paid to you on before March 15
of the calendar year after the earlier of this Separation Agreement being offered to you or your
last day of active service as an employee of MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates.

3. You have forty-five (45) days in which to review this Agreement and fully consider its
terms and any disclosure information that is attached as an exhibit to this Agreement prior to
signing it. You should consult with legal counsel prior to signing this Agreement (if you
live/work in West Virginia, you may contact the state Bar Association, if you wish, at
1-800-642-3617). You may accept this Agreement by fully executing it and returning it to MetLife,
Inc. at 1 MetLife Plaza, Long Island City, NY 11101 attention: General Counsel by no later than
5:00 p.m. on the forty-fifth (45 th ) day after your receipt of it. After you have
executed this Agreement, you will have seven (7) days to revoke this Agreement (except that if you
are/were employed in Minnesota you will have fifteen (15) days to revoke this Agreement), which you
may do by indicating your desire to do so in writing directed to MetLife, Inc. at the above address
and attention. MetLife, Inc. must receive any revocation no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh
(7 th ) day

following the date on which you executed this Agreement (except that if you are/were employed
in Minnesota, MetLife, Inc. must receive your revocation by 5:00 PM on the fifteenth
(15 th ) day following the date you executed this Agreement or you must have your
revocation postmarked and sent by certified mail return receipt requested by the fifteenth
(15 th ) day following the date you executed this Agreement). This Agreement will become
effective on the eighth (8 th ) day following your execution of this Agreement (except
that if you are/were employed in Minnesota, this Agreement will become effective on the sixteenth
(16 th ) date following your execution of this Agreement) (the  Effective Date ), provided
you have not revoked it.

4. This Agreement may not be changed except in a writing that specifically references this
Agreement and that is signed by you and an officer of MetLife. Any written stock option agreement
into which you may have entered during your employment with MetLife remains in full force and
effect.

I accept this Agreement:

Signature

Name

Date

METLIFE

By: 

Signature

Name

Date

ii 

</EX-10.81>

<EX-12.1>
 15
 y48170exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

EX-12.1 

Exhibit 12.1 

  MetLife, Inc. 
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 16
 y48170exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: SUBSIDIARIES

EX-21.1 

Exhibit 21.1

METLIFE, INC.  
As of December 31, 2007

Wholly-Owned Active Subsidiaries 1  

23RD STREET INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 
334 MADISON EURO INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 
440 SOUTH LASALLE LLC (DE) 
500 GRANT STREET GP LLC (DE) 
500 GRANT STREET ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
ALTERNATIVE FUEL I, LLC (DE) 
BEST MARKET S.A. (AGENTINA) 
BOND TRUST ACCOUNT A (MA) 
CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK) 
COMPANIA PREVISIONAL METLIFE S.A. (BRAZIL) 
CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK) 
CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
CORRIGAN TLP LLC (DE) 
COVA CORPORATION (MO) 
COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE) 
CRB CO., INC. (MA) 
ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL) 
ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE) 
ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE) 
EXETER REASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (BERMUDA) 
EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE) 
EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO) 
GA HOLDING CORP. (MA) 
GENAMERICA CAPITAL I (DE) 
GENAMERICA FINANCIAL, LLC (MO) 
GENAMERICA MANAGEMENT CORPORATION (MO) 
KRISMAN, INC. (MO) 
GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE) 
GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS) 
GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE) 
HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA) 
HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA) 
HOLLOW CREEK, L.L.C. (CT) 
HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE) 
HYATT LEGAL PLANS, INC. (DE) 
HYATT LEGAL PLANS OF FLORIDA, INC. (FL) 
HPZ ASSETS LLC (DE) 
MET1 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)

1  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures and
partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment
partner. 

MET2 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
META SIEFORE ADICIONAL, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET AFJP S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
MET P C MANAGING GENERAL AGENCY, INC. (TX) 
MET INVESTORS ADVISORY, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE ADMINISTRADORA DE FUNDOS MULTIPATROCINADOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
METLIFE ADVISERS, LLC (MA) 
METLIFE AFORE, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE ASSOCIATES LLC (DE) 
METLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED (UK) 
METLIFE AUTO   HOME INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (RI) 
METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (USA) 
METLIFE CANADA/ METVIE CANADA (CANADA) 
METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY) 
METLIFE CAPITAL CREDIT L.P. (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST II (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST III (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST IV (DE) 
METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE) 
METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE) 
METLIFE CREDIT CORP.(DE) 
METLIFE DIRECT CO.,LTD.(JAPAN) 
METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, INC. (UK) 
METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE EXCHANGE TRUST I (DE) 
METLIFE FUBON LIMITED (JAPAN) 
METLIFE FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF MASSACHUSETTS, INC.(MA) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF TEXAS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE GLOBAL, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GROUP, INC. (NY) 
METLIFE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT (CT) 
METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INSURANCE S.A./NV (BELGIUM) 
METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT ADVISORS COMPANY, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS SERVICES LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS MANAGEMENT LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO) 
METLIFE INVESTORS GROUP, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTORS FINANCIAL AGENCY, INC. (TX) 
METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 
METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO)

METLIFE PENSIONS TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK) 
METLIFE PENSIONES S.A. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC(CANADA) 
METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE REAL ESTATE CAYMAN COMPANY (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT) 
METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA)- 
(also known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea Limited) 
METLIFE SECURITIES, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA) 
METLIFE SERVICES LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE SERVICES (SINGAPORE) PTE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE) 
METLIFE STANDBY I, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE TAIWAN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (TAIWAN) 
METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE TOWARZYSTWO UBEZPIECZEN NA ZYCIE POLSKA AKCYJNA (POLAND) 
METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METPARK FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY) 
METROPOLITAN LLOYDS, INC. (TX) 
METROPOLITAN LLOYDS INSURANCE COMPANY OF TEXAS (TX) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL) 
METROPOLITAN MARINE WAY INVESTMENTS LIMITED (CANADA) 
METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN REALTY MANAGEMENT, INC. (DE) 
METROPOLITAN REINSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 
METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC.(DE) 
MEX DF PROPERTIES, LLC (DE) 
MEZZANINE INVESTMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP-BDR (DE) 
MEZZANINE INVESTMENT LIMITED PARTNERSHIP-LG (DE) 
MIDTOWN HEIGHTS, LLC (DE) 
MISSOURI REINSURANCE (BARBADOS), INC. (BARBADOS) 
MLA COMERCIAL, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
MLA SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
MSV IRVINE PROPERTY, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND I, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND II, LLC (          ) 
MTL LEASING, LLC (DE) 
NATHAN AND LEWIS ASSOCIATES OHIO, INCORPORATED (OH) 
NATILOPORTEM HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
NEW ENGLAND LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MA)

NEW ENGLAND SECURITIES CORPORATION (MA) 
NEWBURY INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (BERMUDA) 
ONE FINANCIAL PLACE CORPORATION (DE) 
ONE FINANCIAL PLACE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
ONE MADISON INVESTMENTS (CAYCO) LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
PANTHER VALLEY, INC. (NJ) 
PARK TWENTY THREE INVESTMENTS COMPANY (UNITED KINGDOM) 
PARTNERS TOWER, L.P. (DE) 
PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND I, LLC (DE) 
PILGRIM INVESTMENTS HIGHLAND PARK, LLC (DE) 
PLAZA DRIVE PROPERTIES LLC (DE) 
PLAZA LLC (CT) 
PREFCO IX REALTY LLC (CT) 
PREFCO X HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 
PREFCO XIV HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 
PREFCO DIX-HUIT LLC (CT) 
PREFCO FOURTEEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO TEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO TWENTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO VINGT LLC (CT) 
SERVICIOS ADMINISTRATIVOS GEN, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
SIEMBRA SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
SOAP ACQUISITION CORPORATION (DE) 
SPECIAL MULTI-ASSET RECEIVABLES TRUST (DELAWARE) 
TEN PARK SPC (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TEXAS LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (TX) 
THE PROSPECT COMPANY (DE) 
THORNGATE, LLC (DE) 
TH TOWER LEASING, LLC (DE) 
TH TOWER NGP, LLC (DE) 
TIC EUROPEAN REAL ESTATE LP, LLC (DE) 
TLA HOLDINGS LLC (DE) 
TOWER SQUARE SECURITIES, INC. (CT) 
TOWER SQUARE SECURITIES INSURANCE AGENCY OF NEW MEXICO, INC. (NM) 
TOWER SQUARE SECURITIES INSURANCE AGENCY OF OHIO, INC. (OH) 
TRAL   CO.(CT) 
TRANSMOUNTAIN LAND   LIVESTOCK COMPANY (MT) 
TRAVELERS INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TRIBECA DISTRESSED SECURITIES, L.L.C. (DE) 
WALNUT STREET SECURITIES, INC. (MO) 
WHITE OAK ROYALTY COMPANY (OK)

METLIFE, INC. 
As of December 31, 2007 

Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its own account)
of 10% through 99% of the total  outstanding voting stock 2 

PARKWAY REINSURANCE COMPANY (52%) (MO) 
PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND III ASSOCIATES, LLC (67%) (CT) 
PILGRIM INVESTMENTS OAKMONT LANE, LLC (50%) (DE) 
GENERAL AMERICAN ARGENTINA SEGUROS DE VIDA, S.A. (52%) (ARGENTINA) 
LONG TERM CARE PARTNERS, LLC (50%) (DE) 
METLIFE INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY PRIVATE LIMITED (26%) (INDIA) 
METROPOLITAN LLOYDS INSURANCE COMPANY OF TEXAS 3  (TX) 
REINSURANCE COMPANY OF MISSOURI, INCORPORATED (52%)(MO) 
REINSURANCE GROUP OF AMERICA, INCORPORATED (52%)(MO) 
REINSURANCE PARTNERS, INC. (52%)(MO) 
RGA AMERICAS REINSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (52%)(BARBADOS) 
RGA ASIA PACIFIC PTY LIMITED (52%) (AUSTRALIA) 
RGA ATLANTIC REINSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (52%) (BARBADOS) 
RGA AUSTRALIAN HOLDINGS PTY LIMITED (52%)(AUSTRALIA) 
RGA CAPITAL LIMITED (U.K.)(52%)(UNITED KINGDOM) 
RGA CAPITAL TRUST I (52%)(DE) 
RGA FINANCIAL GROUP, L.L.C. (52%)(DE) 
RGA GLOBAL REINSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (52%) (BERMUDA) 
RGA HOLDINGS LIMITED (U.K.) (52%)(UNITED KINGDOM) 
RGA INTERNATIONAL REINSURANCE COMPANY (IRELAND) 
RGA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (52%) (NOVA SCOTIA/ CANADA) 
RGA LIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CANADA (52%)(CANADA) 
RGA REINSURANCE COMPANY (52%) (MO) 
RGA REINSURANCE COMPANY (BARBADOS) LTD. (52%)(BARBADOS) 
RGA REINSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (52%)(AUSTRALIA) 
RGA REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH AFRICA LIMITED (52%)(SOUTH AFRICA) 
RGA REINSURANCE (UK) LIMITED (52%) (UNITED KINGDOM) 
RGA SERVICES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED (52%) (INDIA) 
RGA SOUTH AFRICAN HOLDINGS (PTY) LTD. (52%)(SOUTH AFRICA) 
RGA TECHNOLOGY PARTNERS, INC. (52%) (MO) 
RGA UK SERVICES LIMITED (52%) (UNITED KINGDOM) 
RGA WORLDWIDE REINSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (52%) (BARBADOS) 
ST. JAMES FLEET INVESTMENTS TWO LIMITED (34%)(CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TIMBERLAKE FINANCIAL, L.L.C.(52%) (DE) 
TIMBERLAKE REINSURANCE COMPANY II (52%) (SC)

2  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures and
partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an investment
partner. 

3  
       
     Affiliate 

METLIFE, INC. 
As of December 31, 2007 

Publicly-Held Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its
Own Account) of 10% through 99% of the  total outstanding voting stock or control:  

REINSURANCE GROUP OF AMERICA, INCORPORATED (MO)

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 17
 y48170exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

EX-23.1 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

 We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
333-147180, 333-147180-01, 333-147180-02, 333-147180-03, 333-147180-04 and
333-147180-05 on Form S-3 and 333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383, 333-139382,
333-139380, 333-121344, 333-121343, 333-121342, 333-102306, 333-101291,
333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of our report on the consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc., and subsidiaries
(the  Company ) dated February 28, 2008 (which expresses an unqualified opinion
and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s method
of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income taxes as required
by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007, and its method of accounting
for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans as required by
accounting guidance adopted on December 31, 2006), and our report on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting dated
February 28, 2008, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company
for the year ended December 31, 2007.
      
 /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP
 New York, New York 
February 28, 2008

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 18
 y48170exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
February 28, 2008

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson  

C. Robert Henrikson 

Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 19
 y48170exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
February 28, 2008

/s/ William J. Wheeler  

William J. Wheeler 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 20
 y48170exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF 
THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2007 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date:
February 28, 2008

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson  

C. Robert Henrikson 

Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 21
 y48170exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2: CERTIFICATION

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF 
THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2007 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date:
February 28, 2008

/s/ William J. Wheeler  

William J. Wheeler 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
MetLife, Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

