<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100226_10-K_edgar_data_1099219_0000950123-10-018284_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>22463564</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2250459</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>337487</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4290688</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6559597</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>7309381</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>269</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>29</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-018284.hdr.sgml : 20130131

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100226170231

<PRIVATE-TO-PUBLIC>

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-018284

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		70

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231

FILED AS OF DATE:		20100226

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100610


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			METLIFE INC

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001099219

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	LIFE INSURANCE [6311]

		IRS NUMBER:				134075851

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE

		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-15787

		FILM NUMBER:		10640383



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036

		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-578-5500



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		1095 AVENUE OF AMERICAS

		CITY:			NEW YORK

		STATE:			NY

		ZIP:			10036




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000950123-10-018284.txt : 20130131

10-K
 1
 y81517e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED
    STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
     Washington, D.C.
    20549   

Form 10-K   

Commission file number
     001-15787  

MetLife, Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, par
    value $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, par value
    $0.01

New York Stock Exchange

5.875% Senior Notes

New York Stock Exchange

5.375% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

5.25% Senior Notes

Irish Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has
    filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
    15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
    preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
    registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
    been subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
    and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
    knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
    incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated
    filer      (Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting
    company    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common
    equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant at June 30,
    2009 was approximately $25 billion. At February 22,
    2010, 819,117,546 shares of the registrant s common
    stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

The information required to be furnished pursuant to part of
    Item 10 and Item 11 through Item 14 of
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    is set forth in, and is hereby incorporated by reference herein
    from, the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 27,
    2010, to be filed by the registrant with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later
    than 120 days after the year ended December 31,
    2009. 

Table Of
    Contents  

Page 

Number 

Part I  

Item 1. 

Business 

4

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

27

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

57

Item 2. 

Properties 

57

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

58

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

58

Part II  

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

59

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

61

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

63

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

162

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

173

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

174

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

174

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

176

Part III  

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

178

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

178

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

178

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

181

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

181

Part IV  

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

182

Signatures  

183

Exhibit Index  

E-1 

EX-2.3    
     EX-4.7    
     EX-4.8    
     EX-4.9    
     EX-4.10    
     EX-4.11    
     EX-10.12    
     EX-10.13    
     EX-10.14    
     EX-10.41    
     EX-10.46    
     EX-10.54    
     EX-10.55    
     EX-10.70    
     EX-10.83    
     EX-10.84    
     EX-12.1    
     EX-21.1    
     EX-23.1    
     EX-31.1    
     EX-31.2    
     EX-32.1    
     EX-32.2    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

As used in this
     Form 10-K, 
     MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
     our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). 

Note
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    including the Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, may contain or
    incorporate by reference information that includes or is based
    upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the
    Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
    Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of
    future events. These statements can be identified by the fact
    that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
    They use words such as  anticipate, 
     estimate,   expect,   project, 
     intend,   plan,   believe  and
    other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a
    discussion of future operating or financial performance. In
    particular, these include statements relating to future actions,
    prospective services or products, future performance or results
    of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts,
    expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal
    proceedings, trends in operations and financial results. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations. 

Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong.
    They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or
    unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be
    important in determining MetLife s actual future results.
    These statements are based on current expectations and the
    current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and
    uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements
    are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could
    differ materially from those expressed or implied in the
    forward-looking statements. Risks, uncertainties, and other
    factors that might cause such differences include the risks,
    uncertainties and other factors identified in MetLife,
    Inc. s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission (the  SEC ). These factors include:
    (i) difficult and adverse conditions in the global and
    domestic capital and credit markets; (ii) continued
    volatility and further deterioration of the capital and credit
    markets, which may affect the Company s ability to seek
    financing or access its credit facilities;
    (iii) uncertainty about the effectiveness of the
    U.S. government s plan to stabilize the financial
    system by injecting capital into financial institutions,
    purchasing large amounts of illiquid, mortgage-backed and other
    securities from financial institutions, or otherwise;
    (iv) exposure to financial and capital market risk;
    (v) changes in general economic conditions, including the
    performance of financial markets and interest rates, which may
    affect the Company s ability to raise capital, generate fee
    income and market-related revenue and finance statutory reserve
    requirements and may require the Company to pledge collateral or
    make payments related to declines in value of specified assets;
    (vi) potential liquidity and other risks resulting from
    MetLife s participation in a securities lending program and
    other transactions; (vii) investment losses and defaults,
    and changes to investment valuations; (viii) impairments of
    goodwill and realized losses or market value impairments to
    illiquid assets; (ix) defaults on the Company s
    mortgage loans; (x) the impairment of other financial
    institutions; (xi) MetLife s ability to identify and
    consummate on successful terms any future acquisitions, and to
    successfully integrate acquired businesses with minimal
    disruption; (xii) economic, political, currency and other
    risks relating to the Company s international operations;
    (xiii) MetLife, Inc. s primary reliance, as a holding
    company, on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment
    obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the
    ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends;
    (xiv) downgrades in MetLife, Inc. s and its
    affiliates  claims paying ability, financial strength or
    credit ratings; (xv) ineffectiveness of risk management
    policies and procedures, including with respect to guaranteed
    benefits (which may be affected by fair value adjustments
    arising from changes in our own credit spread) on certain of the
    Company s variable annuity products;
    (xvi) availability and effectiveness of reinsurance or
    indemnification arrangements; (xvii) discrepancies between
    actual claims experience and assumptions used in setting prices
    for the Company s products and establishing the liabilities
    for the Company s obligations for future policy benefits
    and claims; (xviii) catastrophe losses;
    (xix) heightened competition, including with respect to
    pricing, entry of new competitors, consolidation of
    distributors, the development of new products by new and
    existing competitors and for personnel; (xx) unanticipated
    changes in industry trends; (xxi) changes in accounting
    standards, practices
     and/or 
    policies; (xxii) changes in assumptions related to deferred
    policy acquisition costs ( DAC ), value of business
    acquired ( VOBA ) or goodwill; (xxiii) increased
    expenses relating to pension and postretirement benefit plans;
    (xxiv) deterioration in the experience of the  closed
    block  established in connection with the reorganization of
    MLIC; (xxv) adverse results or other consequences from
    litigation, arbitration or regulatory investigations;

2

Table of Contents   

(xxvi) discrepancies between actual experience and
    assumptions used in establishing liabilities related to other
    contingencies or obligations; (xxvii) regulatory,
    legislative or tax changes that may affect the cost of, or
    demand for, the Company s products or services;
    (xxviii) the effects of business disruption or economic
    contraction due to terrorism, other hostilities, or natural
    catastrophes; (xxix) the effectiveness of the
    Company s programs and practices in avoiding giving its
    associates incentives to take excessive risks; and
    (xxx) other risks and uncertainties described from time to
    time in MetLife, Inc. s filings with the SEC.

MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly
    correct or update any forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc.
    later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be
    achieved. Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc.
    makes on related subjects in reports to the SEC.

Note
    Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our Contracts  

In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    please remember that they are included to provide you with
    information regarding their terms and are not intended to
    provide any other factual or disclosure information about
    MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or the other parties to the
    agreements. The agreements contain representations and
    warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.
    These representations and warranties have been made solely for
    the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and:

should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements
    of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of
    the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate;

have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other
    party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable
    agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily reflected in
    the agreement;

may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different
    from what may be viewed as material to investors; and

were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or
    such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement
    and are subject to more recent developments.

Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not
    describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were
    made or at any other time. Additional information about MetLife,
    Inc. and its subsidiaries may be found elsewhere in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are
    available without charge through the SEC website at www.sec.gov.

3

Table of Contents   

Part I  

Item 1.      

Business   

As used in this
     Form 10-K, 
     MetLife,  the  Company,   we, 
     our  and  us  refer to MetLife, Inc., a
    Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ).

With a more than
     140-year 
    history, we have grown to become a leading, global provider of
    insurance, employee benefits and financial services with more
    than 70 million customers and operations throughout the
    United States and the regions of Latin America, Asia
    Pacific and Europe, Middle East and India ( EMEI ).
    Over the past several years, we have grown our core businesses,
    as well as successfully executed on our growth strategy. This
    has included completing a number of transactions that have
    resulted in the acquisition and in some cases divestiture of
    certain businesses while also further strengthening our balance
    sheet to position MetLife for continued growth.

In December 2009, we began reporting results under our new
    U.S. Business organization. U.S. Business consists of
    Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding ( CBF ) and Auto   Home. The former
    Institutional Business   Individual Business segments
    have been reclassified into the following three segments:

Insurance Products (group life, individual life and non-medical
    health insurance products);

Retirement Products (individual and institutional annuity
    products); and

Corporate Benefit Funding (pension closeouts, structured
    settlements and other benefit funding solutions).

The financial reporting format for the Auto   Home
    segment, which is also part of U.S. Business and consists
    of our property   casualty insurance products, remains
    unchanged from prior periods.

Through our U.S. Business organization, we provide a
    variety of insurance and financial services products  
    including life, dental, disability and long-term care insurance,
    guaranteed interest and stable value products, various annuity
    products, and auto   home insurance  
    through both proprietary and independent retail distribution
    channels, as well as at the workplace. This business serves over
    60,000 group customers, including over 90 of the top one hundred
    FORTUNE
    500   

    companies, and provides protection and retirement solutions to
    millions of individuals.

Our International segment operates in 16 countries within the
    Latin America, Asia Pacific and EMEI regions. MetLife is the
    largest life insurer in Mexico and also holds leading market
    positions in Chile and Japan. We are also investing in organic
    growth efforts in a number of countries, including India, China
    and South Korea. International is the fastest-growing of
    MetLife s businesses, and we have clearly identified it to
    be one of the biggest future growth areas.

Within the U.S., we also provide a wide array of savings and
    mortgage banking products. Through its own organic growth
    efforts and the completion of two mortgage company acquisitions
    in 2008, MetLife Bank, National Association ( MetLife
    Bank ), ranked among the top four reverse mortgage
    originators and the top 11 mortgage originators for the year
    ended December 31, 2009, according to Reverse Mortgage
    Insight and Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry trade group
    publication. Results of our banking operation are reported in
    Banking, Corporate   Other.

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of
    consolidated revenues in any of the last three years. Financial
    information, including revenues, expenses, income and loss, and
    total assets by segment, is provided in Note 22 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

With a $328 billion general account portfolio invested
    primarily in investment grade corporate bonds, structured
    finance securities, commercial   agricultural mortgage
    loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed
    securities, as well as real estate and corporate equity, we are
    one of the largest institutional investors in the United States.
    Over the past several years, we have taken a number of actions
    to further diversify and strengthen our general account
    portfolio.

4

Table of Contents   

Our well-recognized brand names, leading market positions,
    competitive and innovative product offerings and financial
    strength and expertise should help drive future growth and
    enhance shareholder value, building on a long history of
    fairness, honesty and integrity.

Over the course of the next several years, we will pursue the
    following specific objectives to achieve our goals:

Build on our widely recognized brand name 

Capitalize on our large customer base of institutions and
    individual consumers 

Expand and leverage our broad, diverse distribution
    channels 

Continue to introduce innovative and competitive products 

Focus on growing our businesses around the globe 

Capitalize on opportunities to provide retirement income
    solutions 

Maintain balanced focus on income and protection products 

Maintain and enhance capital efficiency 

Continue to achieve organizational efficiencies through our
    Operational Excellence initiative 

Focus on margin improvement and return on equity expansion 

Further our commitment to a diverse workplace 

U.S.
    Business  

Overview   

Insurance
    Products  

Our Insurance Products segment offers a broad range of
    protection products and services aimed at serving the financial
    needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products
    are sold to individuals and corporations, as well as other
    institutions and their respective employees. We have built a
    leading position in the U.S. group insurance market through
    long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate
    employers in the United States, and are one of the largest
    issuers of individual life insurance products in the United
    States. We are organized into three businesses: Group Life,
    Individual Life and Non-Medical Health.

Our Group Life insurance products and services include variable
    life, universal life, and term life products. We offer group
    insurance products as employer-paid benefits or as voluntary
    benefits where all or a portion of the premiums are paid by the
    employee. These group products and services also include
    employee paid supplemental life and are offered as standard
    products or may be tailored to meet specific customer needs.

Our Individual Life insurance products and services include
    variable life, universal life, term life and whole life
    products. Additionally, through our broker-dealer affiliates, we
    offer a full range of mutual funds and other securities
    products. The elimination of transactions from activity between
    the segments within U.S. Business occurs within Individual Life.
    The major products in this area are:

Variable Life.   Variable life products provide
    insurance coverage through a contract that gives the
    policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on
    the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with
    certain guarantees. Most importantly, with variable life
    products, premiums and account balances can be directed by the
    policyholder into a variety of separate accounts or directed to
    the Company s general account. In the separate accounts,
    the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment
    results. We collect specified fees for the management of these
    various investment accounts and any net return is credited
    directly to the policyholder s account. In some instances,
    third-party money management firms manage investment accounts
    that support variable insurance products. With some products, by
    maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the
    advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death
    benefit from adverse investment experience.

5

Table of Contents   

Universal Life.   Universal life products
    provide insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life,
    except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances,
    are allocated only to the Company s general account.
    Universal life products may allow the insured to increase or
    decrease the amount of death benefit coverage over the term of
    the contract and the owner to adjust the frequency and amount of
    premium payments. We credit premiums to an account maintained
    for the policyholder. Premiums are credited net of specified
    expenses. Interest is credited to the policyholder s
    account at interest rates we determine, subject to specified
    minimums. Specific charges are made against the
    policyholder s account for the cost of insurance protection
    and for expenses. With some products, by maintaining a certain
    premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various
    guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse
    investment experience.

Term Life.   Term life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified
    time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums.
    Specified coverage periods range from one year to 30 years,
    but in no event are they longer than the period over which
    premiums are paid. Death benefits may be level over the period
    or decreasing. Decreasing coverage is used principally to
    provide for loan repayment in the event of death. Premiums may
    be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may
    be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term insurance products are
    sometimes referred to as pure protection products, in that there
    are typically no savings or investment elements. Term contracts
    expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the
    insured party is still living.

Whole Life.   Whole life products provide a
    guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured in return for
    the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined
    period. Premium payments may be required for the entire life of
    the contract period, to a specified age or period, and may be
    level or change in accordance with a predetermined schedule.
    Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a
    participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders
    may receive dividends in cash or apply them to increase death
    benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or
    reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
    Because the use of dividends is specified by the policyholder,
    this group of products provides significant flexibility to
    individuals to tailor the product to suit their specific needs
    and circumstances, while at the same time providing guaranteed
    benefits.

Our Non-Medical Health insurance products and services include
    dental insurance, group short- and long-term disability,
    individual disability income, long-term care ( LTC ),
    critical illness and accidental death   dismemberment
    coverages. Other products and services include
    employer-sponsored auto and homeowners insurance provided
    through the Auto   Home segment and prepaid legal
    plans. We also sell administrative services-only
    ( ASO ) arrangements to some employers. The major
    products in this area are:

Dental.   Dental products provide insurance and
    ASO plans that assist employees, retirees and their families in
    maintaining oral health while reducing
     out-of-pocket 
    expenses and providing superior customer service. Dental plans
    include the Preferred Dentist Program and the Dental Health
    Maintenance Organization.

Disability.   Disability products provide a
    benefit in the event of the disability of the insured. In most
    instances, this benefit is in the form of monthly income paid
    until the insured reaches age 65. In addition to income
    replacement, the product may be used to provide for the payment
    of business overhead expenses for disabled business owners or
    mortgage payment protection. This is offered on both a group and
    individual basis.

Long-term Care.   LTC products provide a fixed
    benefit amount on a daily or monthly basis for individuals who
    need assistance with activities of daily living or have a
    cognitive impairment. These products are offered on both a group
    and individual basis.

Retirement
    Products  

Our Retirement products segment includes a variety of variable
    and fixed annuities that are primarily sold to individuals and
    employees of corporations and other institutions. The major
    products in this area are:

Variable Annuities.   Variable annuities provide
    for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs.
    Variable annuities allow the contractholder to make deposits
    into various investment accounts, as determined by the
    contractholder. The investment accounts are separate accounts
    and risks associated with such investments are borne entirely by
    the contractholder, except where guaranteed minimum benefits are

6

Table of Contents   

involved. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders
    may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to
    the Company s general account and are credited with
    interest at rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. In
    addition, contractholders may also elect certain minimum death
    benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which
    additional fees are charged.

Fixed Annuities.   Fixed annuities provide for
    both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Fixed
    annuities do not allow the same investment flexibility provided
    by variable annuities, but provide guarantees related to the
    preservation of principal and interest credited. Deposits made
    into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the
    Company s general account and are credited with interest at
    rates we determine, subject to certain minimums. Credited
    interest rates are guaranteed not to change for certain limited
    periods of time, ranging from one to ten years. Fixed income
    annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified
    period of years
     and/or  for
    the life of the annuitant.

Corporate
    Benefit Funding  

Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment includes an array of
    annuity and investment products, including, guaranteed interest
    products and other stable value products, income annuities, and
    separate account contracts for the investment management of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan assets. This
    segment also includes certain products to fund postretirement
    benefits and company, bank or trust owned life insurance used to
    finance non-qualified benefit programs for executives. The major
    products in this area are:

Stable Value Products.   We offer general
    account guaranteed interest contracts, separate account
    guaranteed interest contracts, and similar products used to
    support the stable value option of defined contribution plans.
    We also offer private floating rate funding agreements that are
    used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral
    portfolios and short-term investment funds.

Pensions Closeouts.   We offer general account
    and separate account annuity products, generally in connection
    with the termination of defined benefit pension plans, both
    domestically and in the United Kingdom. We also offer
    partial risk transfer solutions that allow for partial transfers
    of pension liabilities. Annuity products include single premium
    buyouts and terminal funding contracts.

Torts and Settlements.   We offer innovative
    strategies for complex litigation settlements, primarily
    structured settlement annuities.

Capital Markets Investment Products.   Products
    offered include funding agreements (including our Global GIC
    Programs), Federal Home Loan Bank advances and funding agreement
    backed commercial paper.

Other Corporate Benefit Funding Products and
    Services.   We offer specialized life insurance
    products designed specifically to provide solutions for
    non-qualified benefit and retiree benefit funding purposes.

Auto  
    Home  

Our Auto   Home segment includes personal lines
    property and casualty insurance offered directly to employees at
    their employer s worksite, as well as to individuals
    through a variety of retail distribution channels, including
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, direct
    response marketing and the agency distribution group.
    Auto   Home primarily sells auto insurance, which
    represented 68% of Auto   Home s total net earned
    premiums in 2009. Homeowners and other insurance represented 32%
    of Auto   Home s total net earned premiums in
    2009. The major products in this area are:

Auto Coverages.   Auto insurance policies
    provide coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility
    automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or
    classic automobiles and trailers. Auto   Home offers
    traditional coverage such as liability, uninsured motorist, no
    fault or personal injury protection and collision and
    comprehensive.

Homeowners and Other
    Coverages.   Homeowners  insurance policies
    provide protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners
    and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage
    to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well
    as coverage for liability arising from ownership

7

Table of Contents   

or occupancy. Other insurance includes personal excess liability
    (protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other
    liability insurance policies), and coverage for recreational
    vehicles and boat owners.

Traditional insurance policies for dwellings represent the
    majority of Auto   Home s homeowners 
    policies providing protection for loss on a  replacement
    cost  basis. These policies provide additional coverage for
    reasonable, normal living expenses incurred by policyholders
    that have been displaced from their homes.

Sales
    Distribution   

Our U.S. Business markets our products and services through
    various distribution groups. Our life insurance and retirement
    products targeted to individuals are sold via sales forces,
    comprised of MetLife employees, in addition to third-party
    organizations. Our group life and non-medical health insurance
    and corporate benefit funding products are sold via sales forces
    primarily comprised of MetLife employees. Personal lines
    property and casualty insurance products are directly marketed
    to employees at their employer s worksite. Auto  
    Home products are also marketed and sold to individuals by
    independent agents and property and casualty specialists through
    a direct response channel and the agency distribution group.
    MetLife sales employees work with all distribution groups to
    better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and
    other intermediaries.

Individual
    Sales Distribution  

Our individual distribution targets the large middle-income
    market, as well as affluent individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.
    We have also been successful in selling our products in various
    multi-cultural markets.

Insurance Products are sold through our individual sales
    distribution organization and also through various third-party
    organizations utilizing two models. In the coverage model,
    wholesalers sell to high net worth individuals and small- to
    medium-sized businesses through independent general agencies,
    financial advisors, consultants, brokerage general agencies and
    other independent marketing organizations under contractual
    arrangements. Wholesalers sell through financial intermediaries,
    including regional broker-dealers, brokerage firms, financial
    planners and banks.

Retirement Products are sold through our individual sales
    distribution organization and also through various third-party
    organizations such as regional broker-dealers, New York Stock
    Exchange ( NYSE ) brokerage firms, financial planners
    and banks.

Individual sales distribution representatives market
    Auto   Home products to individuals through a variety
    of means.

The individual sales distribution organization is comprised of
    three channels: the MetLife distribution channel, a career
    agency system, the New England financial distribution channel, a
    general agency system, and MetLife Resources, a career agency
    system.

The MetLife distribution channel had 5,762 MetLife agents under
    contract in 82 agencies at December 31, 2009. The career
    agency sales force focuses on the large middle-income and
    affluent markets, including multi-cultural markets. We support
    our efforts in multi-cultural markets through targeted
    advertising, specially trained agents and sales literature
    written in various languages.

The New England financial distribution channel included 36
    general agencies providing support to 2,232 general agents and a
    network of independent brokers throughout the United States at
    December 31, 2009. The New England financial distribution
    channel targets high net worth individuals, owners of small
    businesses and executives of small- to medium-sized companies.

MetLife Resources, a focused distribution channel of MetLife,
    markets retirement, annuity and other financial products on a
    national basis through 621 MetLife agents and independent
    brokers at December 31, 2009. MetLife Resources targets the
    nonprofit, educational and healthcare markets.

8

Table of Contents   

We market and sell Auto   Home products through
    independent agents, property and casualty specialists, a direct
    response channel and the agency distribution group. In recent
    years, we have increased the number of independent agents
    appointed to sell these products.

In 2009, Auto   Home s business was concentrated
    in the following states, as measured by amount and percentage of
    total direct earned premiums:

Group
    Sales Distribution  

Insurance Products distributes its group life and non-medical
    health insurance products and services through a sales force
    that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Marketing
    representatives sell either directly to corporate and other
    group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or
    consultant. Voluntary products are sold through the same sales
    channels, as well as by specialists for these products.
    Employers have been emphasizing such voluntary products and, as
    a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and
    marketing to such employees in order to further foster sales of
    those products. At December 31, 2009, the group life and
    non-medical health insurance sales channels had 385 marketing
    representatives.

Retirement Products markets its retirement, savings, investment
    and payout annuity products and services to sponsors and
    advisors of benefit plans of all sizes. These products and
    services are offered to private and public pension plans,
    collective bargaining units, nonprofit organizations, recipients
    of structured settlements and the current and retired members of
    these and other institutions.

Corporate Benefit Funding products and services are distributed
    through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers located
    in 12 offices around the country. In addition, the
    retirement   benefits funding organization works with
    individual distribution and group life and non-medical health
    insurance distribution areas to better reach and service
    customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.

Auto   Home is a leading provider of personal lines
    property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at
    their employer s worksite. At December 31, 2009, 2,223
    employers offered MetLife Auto   Home products to
    their employees.

Group marketing representatives market personal lines property
    and casualty insurance products to employers through a variety
    of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group
    customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences
    marketing efforts to employees. Employees who are interested in
    the auto and homeowners products can call a toll-free number to
    request a quote to purchase coverage and to request payroll
    deduction over the telephone. Auto   Home has also
    developed a proprietary software that permits an employee in
    most states to obtain a quote for auto insurance through
    Auto   Home s Internet website.

We have entered into several joint ventures and other
    arrangements with third parties to expand the marketing and
    distribution opportunities of group products and services. We
    also seek to sell our group products and services through
    sponsoring organizations and affinity groups. For example, we
    are the provider of LTC products for the National Long-Term Care
    Coalition, a group of some of the nation s largest
    employers. In addition, we also provide life and dental coverage
    to federal employees.

9

Table of Contents   

International  

Overview   

International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, credit insurance, annuities, endowment and
    retirement   savings products to both individuals and
    groups. We focus on emerging markets primarily within the Latin
    America, Asia Pacific and EMEI regions. We operate in
    international markets through subsidiaries and joint ventures.
    See  Risk Factors   Fluctuations in Foreign
    Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could
    Negatively Affect Our Profitability,  and  Risk
    Factors   Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability,  and
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

Latin
    America Region   

We operate in the Latin America region in Mexico, Chile, Brazil,
    Argentina, and Uruguay. The operations in Mexico and Chile
    represented 83% of the total premiums and fees in this region
    for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Mexican operation
    is the largest life insurance company in both the individual and
    group businesses in Mexico according to Asociaci n Mexicana
    de Instituciones de Seguro, a Mexican industry trade group which
    provides ranking for insurance companies. The Chilean operation
    is the second largest annuity company in Chile, based on market
    share according to Superintendencia Valores y Seguros, the
    Chilean insurance regulator. The Chilean operation also offers
    individual life insurance and group insurance products. We also
    actively market individual life insurance, group insurance
    products and credit life coverage in Argentina, but the
    nationalization of the pension system substantially reduced our
    presence in Argentina. The business environment in Argentina has
    been, and may continue to be, affected by governmental and legal
    actions which impact our results of operations.

Asia
    Pacific Region   

We operate in the Asia Pacific region in South Korea, Hong Kong,
    Taiwan, Australia, Japan, and China. The activities in the
    region are primarily focused on individual business. The
    operations in South Korea and Hong Kong represented 63% of the
    total premiums and fees in this region for the year ended
    December 31, 2009. The South Korean operation has
    significant sales of variable universal life and annuity
    products. The Hong Kong operation has significant sales of
    variable universal life and endowment products. The Japanese
    joint venture operation offers fixed and guaranteed variable
    annuities and variable life products. We have a quota share
    reinsurance agreement with the joint venture in Japan, whereby
    we assume 100% of the living and death guarantee benefits
    associated with the variable annuity business written after
    April 2005 by the joint venture. The operating results of the
    joint venture operations in Japan and China are reflected in net
    investment income and are not consolidated in the financial
    results.

Europe,
    Middle East and India Region   

We operate in Europe in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland and
    Ireland. The results of our operations in the Middle East and
    our consolidated joint venture in India are also included in our
    EMEI region. The operations in the United Kingdom and India
    represented 72% of the total premiums and fees in this region
    for the year ended December 31, 2009. The United Kingdom
    operation underwrites risk in its home market and fourteen other
    countries across Europe and the Middle East offering credit
    insurance coverage. The Indian operation has significant sales
    of unit-linked and traditional life insurance products.

Banking,
    Corporate   Other  

Banking, Corporate   Other contains the excess capital
    not allocated to the business segments, which is invested to
    optimize investment spread and to fund company initiatives,
    various
     start-up 
    entities, and run-off entities. Banking, Corporate  
    Other also includes interest expense related to the majority of
    our outstanding debt and expenses associated with certain legal
    proceedings. The elimination of transactions from activity
    between U.S. Business, International, and Banking,
    Corporate   Other occurs within Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

10

Table of Contents   

Banking, Corporate   Other also includes the financial
    results of MetLife Bank, which offers a variety of residential
    mortgage and deposit products. The residential mortgage banking
    activities include the origination and servicing of mortgage
    loans. Mortgage loans are
     held-for-investment 
    or sold primarily into Federal National Mortgage Association
    ( FNMA ), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    ( FHLMC ) or Government National Mortgage Association
    ( GNMA ) securities. MetLife Bank also leverages
    MetLife s investment platform to source commercial and
    agriculture loans as investments on its balance sheet. MetLife
    Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal
    Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB ) and is subject to
    regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of the
    Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ) and secondarily by
    the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and
    the Federal Reserve.

Products offered by MetLife Bank include forward and reverse
    residential mortgage loans and consumer deposits. Residential
    mortgage loans are originated through MetLife Bank s
    national sales force, mortgage brokers and mortgage
    correspondents. In addition, MetLife Bank principally seeks
    deposits from direct customers via the Internet and mail, as
    well as customers of its affiliates having access to
    affiliates  distribution channels and field force,
    including through voluntary benefits platforms.

The origination of forward and reverse mortgage single family
    loans include both variable and fixed rate products. MetLife
    Bank does not originate
     sub-prime  or
    alternative residential mortgage loans ( Alt-A )
    mortgage loans and the funding for the mortgage banking
    activities is provided by deposits and borrowings.

Deposit products include traditional savings accounts, money
    market savings accounts, certificates of deposit
    ( CDs ) and individual retirement accounts. MetLife
    Bank participates in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry
    Service program through which certain customer CDs are exchanged
    for CDs of similar amounts from participating banks. The deposit
    products provide a relatively stable source of funding and
    liquidity and are used to fund securities and loans.

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined
    amounts that are calculated to meet our policy obligations when
    a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes
    disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to
    provide for future annuity payments. We compute the amounts for
    actuarial liabilities reported in our consolidated financial
    statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
    accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ). For
    more details on Policyholder Liabilities see
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of
    Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Future
    Policy Benefits  and  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Policyholder Liabilities. 

Pursuant to state insurance laws, the Holding Company s
    insurance subsidiaries establish statutory reserves, reported as
    liabilities, to meet their obligations on their respective
    policies. These statutory reserves are established in amounts
    sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken
    together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed
    rates. Statutory reserves generally differ from actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits determined using GAAP.

The New York Insurance Law and regulations require certain
    MetLife entities to submit to the New York Superintendent of
    Insurance or other state insurance departments, with each annual
    report, an opinion and memorandum of a  qualified
    actuary  that the statutory reserves and related actuarial
    amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts,
    and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related
    actuarial amounts, make adequate provision for their statutory
    liabilities with respect to these obligations. See
       Regulation   Insurance Regulation
      Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis. 

Underwriting
    and Pricing  

Underwriting   

Underwriting generally involves an evaluation of applications
    for Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding, and Auto   Home by a professional staff of
    underwriters and actuaries, who determine the type and the
    amount of risk that we are willing to accept. In addition to the
    products described above, the International segment, also offers
    credit insurance and in a limited number of countries, major
    medical products. We

11

Table of Contents   

employ detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures
    designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and
    quantify risks before issuing policies to qualified applicants
    or groups.

Insurance underwriting considers not only an applicant s
    medical history, but also other factors such as financial
    profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco
    use. Group underwriting generally evaluates the risk
    characteristics of each prospective insured group, although with
    certain voluntary products, employees may be underwritten on an
    individual basis. We generally perform our own underwriting;
    however, certain policies are reviewed by intermediaries under
    guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to
    accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or
    group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. Requests for
    coverage are reviewed on their merits and generally a policy is
    not issued unless the particular risk or group has been examined
    and approved by our underwriters.

Our remote underwriting offices, intermediaries, as well as our
    corporate underwriting office are periodically reviewed via
    continuous on-going internal underwriting audits to maintain
    high-standards of underwriting and consistency across the
    Company. Such offices are also subject to periodic external
    audits by reinsurers with whom we do business.

We have established senior level oversight of the underwriting
    process that facilitates quality sales and serves the needs of
    our customers, while supporting our financial strength and
    business objectives. Our goal is to achieve the underwriting,
    mortality and morbidity levels reflected in the assumptions in
    our product pricing. This is accomplished by determining and
    establishing underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies and
    strategies that are competitive and suitable for the customer,
    the agent and us.

Auto   Home s underwriting function has six
    principal aspects: evaluating potential worksite marketing
    employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing
    guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by
    agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case
    basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding
    authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to
    enable Auto   Home to issue a policy within our
    guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be
    written at rates commensurate with risk.

Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the
    U.S. Business distribution channels have binding authority
    for risks which fall within its published underwriting
    guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines
    may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department;
    alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the
    underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk
    themselves. In most states, the Company generally has the right
    within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to
    cancel any policy.

Pricing   

Pricing has traditionally reflected our corporate underwriting
    standards. Product pricing is based on the expected payout of
    benefits calculated through the use of assumptions for
    mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment
    returns, as well as certain macroeconomic factors, such as
    inflation. Investment-oriented products are priced based on
    various factors, which may include investment return, expenses,
    persistency and optionality. For certain investment oriented
    products in the U.S. and certain business sold
    internationally, pricing may include prospective and
    retrospective experience rating features. Prospective experience
    rating involves the evaluation of past experience for the
    purpose of determining future premium rates and all prior year
    gains and losses are borne by the Company. Retrospective
    experience rating also involves the evaluation of past
    experience for the purpose of determining the actual cost of
    providing insurance for the customer, however, the contract
    includes certain features that allow the Company to recoup
    certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the
    policyholder based on actual prior years  experience.

Rates for group life and non-medical health products are based
    on anticipated results for the book of business being
    underwritten. Renewals are generally reevaluated annually or
    biannually and are repriced to reflect actual experience on such
    products. Products offered by CBF are priced frequently and are
    very responsive to bond yields, and such prices include
    additional margin in periods of market uncertainty. This
    business is predominantly illiquid, because policyholders have
    no contractual rights to cash values and no options to change
    the form of the product s benefits.

12

Table of Contents   

Rates for individual life insurance products are highly
    regulated and must be approved by the state regulators where the
    product is sold. Generally such products are renewed annually
    and may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain
    period of time. Fixed and variable annuity products are also
    highly regulated and approved by the individual state
    regulators. Such products generally include penalties for early
    withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor the
    form of the product s benefits to the needs of the opting
    policyholder. The Company periodically reevaluates the costs
    associated with such options and will periodically adjust
    pricing levels on its guarantees. Further, the Company from time
    to time may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee
    features currently being offered.

Rates for Auto   Home s major lines of insurance
    are based on its proprietary database, rather than relying on
    rating bureaus. Auto   Home determines prices in part
    from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of
    personal lines insurance products takes into account, among
    other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the
    costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring
    policyholders and administering policy benefits and other
    administrative and overhead costs), competitive factors and
    profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal
    lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property,
    such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as
    characteristics of the insureds, such as driving record and loss
    experience, and the insured s personal financial
    management. Auto   Home s ability to set and
    change rates is subject to regulatory oversight.

As a condition of our license to do business in each state,
    Auto   Home, like all other automobile insurers, is
    required to write or share the cost of private passenger
    automobile insurance for higher risk individuals who would
    otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This
     involuntary  market, also called the  shared
    market,  is governed by the applicable laws and regulations
    of each state, and policies written in this market are generally
    written at rates higher than standard rates.

We continually review our underwriting and pricing guidelines so
    that our policies remain competitive and supportive of our
    marketing strategies and profitability goals. The current
    economic environment, with its volatility and uncertainty is not
    expected to materially impact the pricing of our products.

Reinsurance
    Activity  

We enter into various agreements with reinsurers that cover
    individual risks, group risks or defined blocks of business,
    primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess or
    catastrophe excess basis. These reinsurance agreements spread
    risk and minimize the effect of losses. The extent of each risk
    retained by us depends on our evaluation of the specific risk,
    subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits
    based on the characteristics of coverages. We also cede first
    dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. In addition to
    reinsuring mortality risk, we reinsure other risks, as well as
    specific coverages. We routinely reinsure certain classes of
    risks in order to limit our exposure to particular travel,
    avocation and lifestyle hazards. We obtain reinsurance for
    capital requirement purposes and also when the economic impact
    of the reinsurance agreement makes it appropriate to do so.

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer
    agrees to reimburse us for the ceded amount in the event a claim
    is paid. However, we remain liable to our policyholders with
    respect to ceded reinsurance should any reinsurer be unable to
    meet its obligations under these agreements. Since we bear the
    risk of nonpayment by one or more of our reinsurers, we
    primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated
    reinsurers. We analyze recent trends in arbitration and
    litigation outcomes in disputes, if any, with our reinsurers. We
    monitor ratings and evaluate the financial strength of our
    reinsurers by analyzing their financial statements. In addition,
    the reinsurance recoverable balance due from each reinsurer is
    evaluated as part of the overall monitoring process.
    Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable balances are evaluated
    based on these analyses. We generally secure large reinsurance
    recoverable balances with various forms of collateral, including
    secured trusts, funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters
    of credit.

We reinsure our business through a diversified group of
    reinsurers. In the event that reinsurers do not meet their
    obligations under the terms of the reinsurance agreements,
    reinsurance balances recoverable could become uncollectible.
    Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not discharge our
    obligations as the primary insurer.

13

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Business   

Our Insurance Products segment participates in reinsurance
    activities in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to
    significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future
    growth. For our individual life insurance products, we have
    historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess
    of retention basis or a quota share basis. Until 2005, we
    reinsured up to 90% of the mortality risk for all new individual
    life insurance policies that we wrote through our various
    subsidiaries. During 2005, we changed our retention practices
    for certain individual life insurance policies. Under the new
    retention guidelines, we reinsure up to 90% of the mortality
    risk in excess of $1 million. Retention limits remain
    unchanged for other new individual life insurance policies.
    Policies reinsured in years prior to 2005 remain reinsured under
    the original reinsurance agreements. On a case by case basis, we
    may retain up to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of
    amounts in excess of our retention limits. We evaluate our
    reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or decrease our
    retention at any time. Placement of reinsurance is done
    primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative basis
    for risks with specific characteristics.

For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, we
    generally retain most of the risk and only cede particular risks
    on certain client arrangements.

Our Retirement Products segment reinsures a portion of the
    living and death benefit guarantees issued in connection with
    our variable annuities. Under these reinsurance agreements, we
    pay a reinsurance premium generally based on fees associated
    with the guarantees collected from policyholders, and receive
    reimbursement for benefits paid or accrued in excess of account
    values, subject to certain limitations. We enter into similar
    agreements for new or in-force business depending on market
    conditions.

Our Corporate Benefit Funding segment has periodically engaged
    in reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.

Our Auto   Home segment purchases reinsurance to
    manage its exposure to large losses (primarily catastrophe
    losses) and to protect statutory surplus. We cede to reinsurers
    a portion of losses and premiums based upon the exposure of the
    policies subject to reinsurance. To manage exposure to large
    property and casualty losses, we utilize property catastrophe,
    casualty and property per risk excess of loss agreements.

International   

Our International segment has periodically engaged in
    reinsurance activities, as considered appropriate.

Banking,
    Corporate   Other   

We also reinsure through 100% quota share reinsurance agreements
    certain run-off long-term care and workers  compensation
    business written by MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut
    ( MICC ), a subsidiary of the Company.

Catastrophe
    Coverage   

We have exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute to
    significant fluctuations in our results of operations. We use
    excess of retention and quota share reinsurance arrangements to
    provide greater diversification of risk and minimize exposure to
    larger risks.

Reinsurance
    Recoverables   

For information regarding ceded reinsurance recoverable
    balances, included in premiums and other receivables in the
    consolidated balance sheets, see Note 9 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulation  

Insurance
    Regulation   

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is licensed to transact
    insurance business in, and is subject to regulation and
    supervision by, all 50 states, the District of Columbia,
    Guam, Puerto Rico, Canada, the U.S. Virgin Islands and

14

Table of Contents   

Northern Mariana Islands. Each of MetLife s insurance
    subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in each U.S. and
    international jurisdiction where they conduct insurance
    business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most
    jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing the financial
    aspects of insurers, including standards of solvency, statutory
    reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy, and the business
    conduct of insurers. In addition, statutes and regulations
    usually require the licensing of insurers and their agents, the
    approval of policy forms and certain other related materials
    and, for certain lines of insurance, the approval of rates. Such
    statutes and regulations also prescribe the permitted types and
    concentration of investments. New York Insurance Law limits the
    amount of compensation that insurers doing business in New York
    may pay to their agents, as well as the amount of total
    expenses, including sales commissions and marketing expenses,
    that such insurers may incur in connection with the sale of life
    insurance policies and annuity contracts throughout the United
    States.

Each insurance subsidiary is required to file reports, generally
    including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance
    regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it
    does business, and its operations and accounts are subject to
    periodic examination by such authorities. These subsidiaries
    must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of
    insurance obtain regulatory approval for, rules, rates and forms
    relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which
    they operate.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) has established a program of accrediting
    state insurance departments. NAIC accreditation contemplates
    that accredited states will conduct periodic examinations of
    insurers domiciled in such states. NAIC-accredited states will
    not accept reports of examination of insurers from unaccredited
    states, except under limited circumstances. As a direct result,
    insurers domiciled in unaccredited states may be subject to
    financial examination by accredited states in which they are
    licensed, in addition to any examinations conducted by their
    domiciliary states. In 2009, the New York State Department of
    Insurance (the  Department ), MLIC s principal
    insurance regulator, received accreditation from the NAIC.
    Previously, the Department was not accredited by the NAIC, but
    the absence of this accreditation did not have a significant
    impact upon our ability to conduct our insurance businesses.

State and federal insurance and securities regulatory
    authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and
    attorneys general from time to time make inquiries regarding
    compliance by the Holding Company and its insurance subsidiaries
    with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations
    regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities
    businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective
    action when warranted. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Holding Company Regulation.   The Holding
    Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation
    under the insurance holding company laws of various
    jurisdictions. The insurance holding company laws and
    regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but
    generally require a controlled insurance company (insurers that
    are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register
    with state regulatory authorities and to file with those
    authorities certain reports, including information concerning
    its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain
    intercompany transactions and general business operations.

State insurance statutes also typically place restrictions and
    limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions
    payable by insurance company subsidiaries to their parent
    companies, as well as on transactions between an insurer and its
    affiliates. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Dividends from Subsidiaries.  The New York Insurance Law
    and the regulations thereunder also restrict the aggregate
    amount of investments MLIC may make in non-life insurance
    subsidiaries, and provide for detailed periodic reporting on
    subsidiaries.

Guaranty Associations and Similar
    Arrangements.   Most of the jurisdictions in which
    the Company s insurance subsidiaries are admitted to
    transact business require life and property and casualty
    insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate
    in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay certain
    contractual insurance benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer is engaged. Some states permit member insurers to
    recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax
    offsets.

15

Table of Contents   

In the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against
    MetLife have not been material. We have established liabilities
    for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for
    assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject
    to insolvency proceedings. See Note 16 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
    the insolvency assessments.

Statutory Insurance Examination.   As part of
    their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments
    conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records,
    accounts, and business practices of insurers domiciled in their
    states. State insurance departments also have the authority to
    conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers that are
    licensed in their states. During the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2009, MetLife has not received any material
    adverse findings resulting from state insurance department
    examinations of its insurance subsidiaries conducted during this
    three-year period.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and Financial
    Industry Regulatory Authority ( FINRA ) have had
    investigations or inquiries relating to sales of individual life
    insurance policies or annuities or other products by MLIC,
    MetLife Securities, Inc., New England Mutual Life Insurance
    Company, New England Life Insurance Company, New England
    Securities Corporation, General American Life Insurance Company,
    Walnut Street Securities, Inc., MICC and Tower Square
    Securities, Inc. Over the past several years, these and a number
    of investigations by other regulatory authorities were resolved
    for monetary payments and certain other relief. We may continue
    to resolve investigations in a similar manner. See Note 16
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Policy and Contract Reserve Sufficiency
    Analysis.   Annually, MetLife s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are required to conduct an
    analysis of the sufficiency of all statutory reserves. In each
    case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion which states
    that the statutory reserves, when considered in light of the
    assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and
    sufficient provision for the associated contractual obligations
    and related expenses of the insurer. If such an opinion cannot
    be provided, the insurer must set up additional reserves by
    moving funds from surplus. Since inception of this requirement,
    the Company s insurance subsidiaries which are required by
    their states of domicile to provide these opinions have provided
    such opinions without qualifications.

Surplus and Capital.   The Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to the supervision
    of the regulators in each jurisdiction in which they are
    licensed to transact business. Regulators have discretionary
    authority, in connection with the continued licensing of these
    insurance subsidiaries, to limit or prohibit sales to
    policyholders if, in their judgment, the regulators determine
    that such insurer has not maintained the minimum surplus or
    capital or that the further transaction of business will be
    hazardous to policyholders. See    Risk-Based
    Capital. 

Risk-Based Capital
    (  RBC  ).   Each of the
    Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries is subject to
    RBC requirements and reports its RBC based on a formula
    calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and
    statutory reserve items, as well as taking into account the risk
    characteristics of the insurer. The major categories of risk
    involved are asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk,
    market risk and business risk. The formula is used as an early
    warning regulatory tool to identify possible inadequately
    capitalized insurers for purposes of initiating regulatory
    action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State
    insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to
    require various actions by, or take various actions against,
    insurers whose RBC ratio does not meet or exceed certain RBC
    levels. As of the date of the most recent annual statutory
    financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the RBC of
    each of these subsidiaries was in excess of each of those RBC
    levels. See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company
      Capital. 

The NAIC provides standardized insurance industry accounting and
    reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and
    Procedures Manual (the  Manual ). However, statutory
    accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws, regulations and permitted practices. The Department
    has adopted the Manual with certain modifications for the
    preparation of statutory financial statements of insurance
    companies domiciled in New York. Changes to the Manual or
    modifications by the various state insurance departments may
    impact the statutory capital and surplus of the Company s
    insurance subsidiaries.

16

Table of Contents   

Regulation of Investments.   Each of the
    Company s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to
    state laws and regulations that require diversification of its
    investment portfolios and limit the amount of investments in
    certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed
    income securities, equity real estate, other equity investments,
    and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and
    regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory
    limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of
    measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require
    divestiture of such non-qualifying investments. We believe that
    the investments made by each of the Company s insurance
    subsidiaries complied, in all material respects, with such
    regulations at December 31, 2009.

Federal Initiatives.   Although the federal
    government generally does not directly regulate the insurance
    business, federal initiatives often have an impact on our
    business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal
    measures are proposed which may significantly affect the
    insurance business. In addition, various forms of direct and
    indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from
    time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an
    optional federal charter for insurance companies. As part of a
    proposed comprehensive reform of financial services regulation,
    Congress is considering the creation of an office within the
    federal government to collect information about the insurance
    industry, recommend prudential standards, and represent the
    United States in dealings with foreign insurance regulators. See
     Risk Factors   Our Insurance and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth. 

Legislative Developments.   As part of their
    proposed financial services regulatory reform legislation, the
    Obama Administration and Congress have made various proposals
    that would change the capital and liquidity requirements, credit
    exposure concentrations and similar prudential matters for bank
    holding companies, banks and other financial firms. For example:

Bank regulatory agencies have issued proposed interagency
    guidance for funding and liquidity risk management that would
    apply to MetLife as a bank holding company.

The proposals under consideration in Congress also include
    special regulatory and insolvency regimes, including even higher
    capital and liquidity standards, for financial institutions that
    are deemed to be systemically significant. These insolvency
    regimes could vary from the resolution regimes currently
    applicable to some subsidiaries of such companies and could
    include assessments on financial companies to provide for a
    systemic resolution fund.

The Obama Administration, members of Congress and Federal
    banking regulators have suggested new or increased taxes or
    assessments on banks and financial firms to mitigate the costs
    to taxpayers of various government programs established to
    address the financial crisis and to offset the costs of
    potential future crises.

The proposed legislation also includes new conditions on the
    writing and trading of certain standardized and non-standardized
    derivatives.

Congress is also considering establishing a new governmental
    agency that would supervise and regulate institutions that
    provide certain financial products and services to consumers.
    Although the consumer financial services to which this
    legislation would apply might exclude certain insurance
    business, the new agency would have authority to regulate
    consumer services provided by MetLife Bank. The proposed
    legislation may also eliminate or significantly restrict federal
    pre-emption of state consumer protection laws applicable to
    banking services, which would increase the regulatory and
    compliance burden on MetLife Bank and could adversely affect its
    business and results of operations. We cannot predict whether
    these or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if
    any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our
    business, financial condition or results of operations or on our
    dealings with other financial institutions. See  Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth. 

We cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what
    legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any
    such legislation on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

17

Table of Contents   

Governmental
    Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions   

U.S. Federal Governmental
    Responses.   Throughout 2008 and continuing in
    2009, Congress, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the
    U.S. Treasury and other agencies of the Federal government
    took a number of increasingly aggressive actions (in addition to
    continuing a series of interest rate reductions that began in
    the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to
    financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor
    confidence in particular troubled institutions and to prevent or
    contain the spread of the financial crisis. These measures
    included:

expanding the types of institutions that have access to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York s discount window;

providing asset guarantees and emergency loans to particular
    distressed companies;

a temporary ban on short selling of shares of certain financial
    institutions (including, for a period, MetLife);

programs intended to reduce the volume of mortgage foreclosures
    by modifying the terms of mortgage loans for distressed
    borrowers;

temporarily guaranteeing money market funds; and

programs to support the mortgage-backed securities market and
    mortgage lending.

In addition to these actions, pursuant to the Emergency Economic
    Stabilization Act of 2008 ( EESA ), enacted in October
    2008, the U.S. Treasury injected capital into selected
    financial institutions and their holding companies. EESA also
    authorizes the U.S. Treasury to purchase mortgage-backed
    and other securities from financial institutions as part of the
    overall $700 billion available for the purpose of
    stabilizing the financial markets. The Federal government, the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York, FDIC and other governmental
    and regulatory bodies also took other actions to address the
    financial crisis. For example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York made funds available to commercial and financial companies
    under a number of programs, including the Commercial Paper
    Funding Facility (the  CPFF ), and the FDIC
    established the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the
     FDIC Program ). In March 2009, MetLife, Inc. issued
    $397 million of senior notes guaranteed by the FDIC under
    the FDIC Program. The FDIC Program and the CPFF expired in late
    2009 and early 2010, respectively. During the period of its
    existence, the Company made limited use of the CPFF, and no
    amounts were outstanding under the CPFF at December 31,
    2009. In October 2009, the FDIC established a limited six-month
    emergency guarantee facility upon expiration of the FDIC
    Program. Participating entities can apply to the FDIC for
    permission to issue FDIC-guaranteed debt during the period
    beginning October 31, 2009 through April 30, 2010.

In February 2009, the Treasury Department outlined a financial
    stability plan with additional measures to provide capital
    relief to institutions holding troubled assets, including a
    capital assistance program for banks that have undergone a
     stress test  (the  Capital Assistance
    Program ) and a public-private investment fund to purchase
    troubled assets from financial institutions. MetLife was
    eligible to participate in the U.S. Treasury s Capital
    Purchase Program, a voluntary capital infusion program
    established under EESA, but elected not to participate in that
    program. MetLife took part in the  stress test  and
    was advised by the Federal Reserve in May 2009 that, based on
    the stress test s economic scenarios and methodology,
    MetLife had adequate capital to sustain a further deterioration
    in the economy. The choices made by the U.S. Treasury in
    its distribution of amounts available under the EESA, the
    Capital Assistance Program and other programs could have the
    effect of supporting some aspects of the financial services
    industry more than others or providing advantages to some of our
    competitors. See  Risk Factors   Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability. 

In addition to the various measures to foster liquidity and
    recapitalize the banking sector, the Federal government also
    passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February
    2009 that provided for nearly $790 billion in additional
    federal spending, tax cuts and federal aid intended to spur
    economic activity.

MetLife, Inc. and some or all of its affiliates may be eligible
    to sell assets to the U.S. Treasury under one or more of
    the programs established under EESA, and some of their assets
    may be among those the U.S. Treasury or the public-private
    investment partnership proposed by the U.S. Treasury offers
    to purchase, either directly or through auction. MetLife, Inc.
    and its affiliates may also be able to purchase assets under
    some of these programs,

18

Table of Contents   

including the public-private investment program and the Term
    Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, which provides funding
    for the purchase of specified types of asset-backed securities.

MetLife Bank has the capacity to borrow from the Federal Reserve
    Bank of New York s Discount Window and from the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York under the Term Auction Facility. At
    December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings
    under the Term Auction Facility.

State Insurance Regulatory Responses.   In
    January 2009, the NAIC considered, but declined, a number of
    reserve and capital relief proposals made by the American
    Council of Life Insurers (the  ACLI ), acting on
    behalf of its member companies. However, notwithstanding that
    NAIC action, insurance companies had the right to approach the
    insurance regulator in their respective state of domicile and
    request relief. Several MetLife insurance entities requested and
    were granted relief, resulting in a beneficial impact on
    reserves and capital. During the latter part of 2009, the NAIC
    adopted a number of reserve and capital relief proposals made by
    the ACLI, acting on behalf of its member companies. These
    changes superseded the actions described above and have
    generally resulted in lower statutory reserve and capital
    requirements, effective December 31, 2009, for life
    insurance companies. We cannot quantify or project the impact on
    the competitive landscape of the reserve and capital relief
    granted or any subsequent regulatory relief that may be granted.

In late 2009, following rating agency downgrades of virtually
    all residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS )
    from certain vintages, the NAIC engaged PIMCO, a well-known
    investment management firm, to analyze approximately 20,000
    residential mortgage-backed securities held by insurers and
    evaluate the likely loss that holders of those securities would
    suffer in the event of a default. PIMCO s analysis showed
    that the severity of expected losses on those securities
    evaluated that are held by our insurance companies was
    significantly less than would be implied by the rating
    agencies  ratings of such securities. The NAIC incorporated
    the results of PIMCO s analysis into the risk-based capital
    charges assigned to the evaluated securities, with a beneficial
    impact on the risk-based capital to our insurance subsidiaries.

In late 2009, the NAIC approved an adjustment, for year-end 2009
    only, to the mortgage experience adjustment factor (the
     MEAF ), which is utilized in calculating the RBC
    charges that are assigned to commercial and agricultural
    mortgages held by our domestic insurers. The MEAF calculation
    includes the ratio of an insurer s commercial and
    agricultural mortgage default experience to the industry average
    commercial and agricultural mortgage default experience and,
    prior to the adjustment, had a cap of 350% and a floor of 50% of
    an industry-wide base factor. As a result of the adjustment, the
    minimum adjustment factor was raised from 50% to 75% and the
    maximum adjustment factor was lowered from 350% to 125%, based
    on an insurer s actual experience. As a result of our
    experience and the increase in the floor, the corresponding RBC
    charges of certain of our domestic insurers, including MLIC,
    increased. It is our understanding that the Capital Adequacy
    Task Force of the NAIC will monitor market conditions and
    progress on proposals that may result in modifying or extending
    the proposal beyond 2009. There can be no assurance that the
    short-term adjustment will continue beyond 2009.

In late 2009, the NAIC issued Statement of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( SSAP ) 10R ( SSAP 10R ). SSAP
    10R increased the amount of deferred tax assets that may be
    admitted on a statutory basis. The admission criteria for
    realizing the value of deferred tax assets was increased from a
    one year to a three year period. Further, the aggregate cap on
    deferred tax assets that may be admitted was increased from 10%
    to 15% of surplus. These changes increased the capital and
    surplus of our insurance subsidiaries, thereby positively
    impacting RBC at December 31, 2009. To temper this positive
    RBC impact, and as a temporary measure at December 31, 2009
    only, a 5% pre-tax RBC charge must be applied to the additional
    admitted deferred tax assets generated by SSAP 10R.

Foreign Governmental Responses.   In an effort
    to strengthen the financial condition of key financial
    institutions or avert their collapse, and to forestall or reduce
    the effects of reduced lending activity, a number of foreign
    governments have also taken actions similar to some of those
    taken by the U.S. Federal government, including injecting
    capital into domestic financial institutions in exchange for
    ownership stakes. We cannot predict whether these actions will
    achieve their intended purpose or how they will impact
    competition in the financial services industry.

19

Table of Contents   

Broker-Dealer
    and Securities Regulation   

Some of the Company s subsidiaries and their activities in
    offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to
    extensive regulation under the federal securities laws
    administered by the SEC. These subsidiaries issue variable
    annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through
    separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended
    (the  Investment Company Act ). Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into
     sub-accounts, 
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and
    variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts
    are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended (the  Securities Act ). Other subsidiaries are
    registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),
    and are members of, and subject to, regulation by the FINRA.
    Further, some of the Company s subsidiaries are registered
    as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment
    Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the  Investment Advisers
    Act ), and are also registered as investment advisers in
    various states, as applicable. Certain variable contract
    separate accounts sponsored by the Company s subsidiaries
    are exempt from registration, but may be subject to other
    provisions of the federal securities laws.

Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA
    from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations
    regarding compliance by the Holding Company and its subsidiaries
    with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate
    with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action
    when warranted.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to protect investors in the securities markets and
    generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and
    enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the
    conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and
    regulations. We may also be subject to similar laws and
    regulations in the foreign countries in which we provide
    investment advisory services, offer products similar to those
    described above, or conduct other activities.

Environmental
    Considerations   

As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to
    extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and
    regulations. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also
    the risk that there may be potential environmental liabilities
    and costs in connection with any required remediation of such
    properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies
    that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities.
    We routinely have environmental assessments performed with
    respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real
    property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide
    assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not
    arise. However, based on information currently available to us,
    we believe that any costs associated with compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such
    properties will not have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.

Employee
    Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA )
    Considerations   

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
    plans that are subject to ERISA, or the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the  Code ). As such, our activities
    are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Code,
    including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
    perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
    participants and beneficiaries and the requirement under ERISA
    and the Code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to
    engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain
    relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable
    provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by
    the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service and the
    Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ( PBGC ).

In  John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company v. 
     Harris Trust and Savings Bank (1993),  the
    U.S. Supreme Court held that certain assets in excess of
    amounts necessary to satisfy guaranteed obligations under a
    participating group annuity general account contract are
     plan assets.  Therefore, these assets are subject to
    certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA, which requires
    fiduciaries to perform their duties solely in the interest of
    ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries. On January 5,
    2000, the Secretary of Labor issued final regulations
    indicating, in cases where an insurer has issued a policy backed
    by the insurer s general account to or for an employee
    benefit

20

Table of Contents   

plan, the extent to which assets of the insurer constitute plan
    assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. The regulations apply
    only with respect to a policy issued by an insurer on or before
    December 31, 1998 ( Transition Policy ). No
    person will generally be liable under ERISA or the Code for
    conduct occurring prior to July 5, 2001, where the basis of
    a claim is that insurance company general account assets
    constitute plan assets. An insurer issuing a new policy that is
    backed by its general account and is issued to or for an
    employee benefit plan after December 31, 1998 will
    generally be subject to fiduciary obligations under ERISA,
    unless the policy is a guaranteed benefit policy.

The regulations indicate the requirements that must be met so
    that assets supporting a Transition Policy will not be
    considered plan assets for purposes of ERISA and the Code. These
    requirements include detailed disclosures to be made to the
    employee benefits plan and the requirement that the insurer must
    permit the policyholder to terminate the policy on 90 day
    notice and receive without penalty, at the policyholder s
    option, either (i) the unallocated accumulated fund balance
    (which may be subject to market value adjustment) or (ii) a
    book value payment of such amount in annual installments with
    interest. We have taken and continue to take steps designed to
    ensure compliance with these regulations.

Banking
    Regulation   

As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC, the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Federal banking laws and
    regulations address various aspects of MetLife Bank s
    business and operations with respect to, among other things,
    chartering to carry on business as a bank; maintaining minimum
    capital ratios; capital management in relation to the
    bank s assets; safety and soundness standards; loan loss
    and other statutory reserves; liquidity; financial reporting and
    disclosure standards; counterparty credit concentration;
    restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;
    lending limits; payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or
    practices; privacy; and bank holding company and bank change of
    control. The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for
    funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to
    depositors. Federal and state banking regulators regularly
    re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and
    their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank.

Financial
    Holding Company Regulation   

Regulatory Agencies.   In connection with its
    acquisition of a federally-chartered commercial bank, MetLife,
    Inc. became a bank holding company and financial holding company
    on February 28, 2001. As such, the Holding Company is
    subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), and to inspection,
    examination, and supervision by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In addition, MetLife Bank is
    subject to regulation and examination primarily by the OCC and
    secondarily by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the FDIC.

Financial Holding Company Activities.   As a
    financial holding company, MetLife, Inc. s activities and
    investments are restricted by the BHC Act, as amended by the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the  GLB Act ), to
    those that are  financial  in nature or
     incidental  or  complementary  to such
    financial activities. Activities that are financial in nature
    include securities underwriting, dealing and market making,
    sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance
    underwriting and agency, merchant banking and activities that
    the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related
    to banking. In addition, under the insurance company investment
    portfolio provision of the GLB Act, financial holding companies
    are authorized to make investments in other financial and
    non-financial companies, through their insurance subsidiaries,
    that are in the ordinary course of business and in accordance
    with state insurance law, provided the financial holding company
    does not routinely manage or operate such companies except as
    may be necessary to obtain a reasonable return on investment.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies
      Capital.   MetLife, Inc. and MetLife
    Bank are subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines
    issued by the federal banking

21

Table of Contents   

regulatory agencies for banks and financial holding companies.
    The federal banking regulatory agencies are required by law to
    take specific prompt corrective actions with respect to
    institutions that do not meet minimum capital standards. At
    December 31, 2009, MetLife, Inc. and MetLife Bank were in
    compliance with the aforementioned guidelines.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies   Consumer Protection
    Laws.   Numerous other federal and state laws also
    affect the Holding Company s and MetLife Bank s
    earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer
    protection laws. The GLB Act included consumer privacy
    provisions that, among other things, require disclosure of a
    financial institution s privacy policy to customers. In
    addition, these provisions permit states to adopt more extensive
    privacy protections through legislation or regulation. As part
    of its consideration of comprehensive reform of financial
    services regulation, Congress is considering establishing a
    Consumer Financial Protection Agency, a new governmental agency
    that would supervise and regulate institutions that provide
    certain financial products and services to consumers. Although
    the consumer financial services to which this legislation would
    apply might exclude certain insurance business, the new agency
    would have authority to regulate consumer services provided by
    MetLife Bank. The proposed legislation may also eliminate or
    significantly restrict federal pre-emption of state consumer
    protection laws applicable to banking services, which would
    increase the regulatory and compliance burden on MetLife Bank
    and could adversely affect its business and results of
    operations.

Other Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies
    and Financial Holding Companies   Change of
    Control.   Because MetLife, Inc. is a financial
    holding company and bank holding company under the federal
    banking laws, no person may acquire control of MetLife, Inc.
    without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. A
    change of control is conclusively presumed upon acquisition of
    25% or more of any class of voting securities and rebuttably
    presumed upon acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting
    securities. Further, as a result of MetLife, Inc. s
    ownership of MetLife Bank, approval from the OCC would be
    required in connection with a change of control (generally
    presumed upon the acquisition of 10% or more of any class of
    voting securities) of MetLife, Inc.

Competition  

We believe that competition faced by our business segments is
    based on a number of factors, including service, product
    features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying
    ratings, credit ratings, ebusiness capabilities and name
    recognition. We compete with a large number of other insurance
    companies, as well as non-insurance financial services
    companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for
    individual consumers, employer and other group customers as well
    as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment
    products. Some of these companies offer a broader array of
    products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to
    other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability
    ratings. Many of our insurance products are underwritten
    annually and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers
    may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors
    rather than renewing coverage with us.

We believe that the turbulence in financial markets that began
    in the latter half of 2008, its impact on the capital position
    of many competitors, and subsequent actions by regulators and
    rating agencies have altered the competitive environment. In
    particular, we believe that these factors have highlighted
    financial strength as the most significant differentiator from
    the perspective of some customers and certain distributors. We
    believe the Company is well positioned to compete in this
    environment. In particular, the Company distributes many of its
    individual products through other financial institutions such as
    banks and broker-dealers. These distribution partners are
    currently placing greater emphasis on the financial strength of
    the company whose products they sell. In addition, the financial
    market turbulence has highlighted the extent of the risk
    associated with certain variable annuity products and has led
    many companies in our industry to re-examine the pricing and
    features of the products they offer. The effects of current
    market conditions may also lead to consolidation in the life
    insurance industry. Although we cannot predict the ultimate
    impact of these conditions, we believe that the strongest
    companies will enjoy a competitive advantage as a result of the
    current circumstances.

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurance companies for sales
    representatives with demonstrated ability. We compete with other
    insurance companies for sales representatives primarily on the
    basis of our financial

22

Table of Contents   

position, support services and compensation and product
    features. See    U.S. Business  
    Sales Distribution.  We continue to undertake several
    initiatives to grow our career agency force, while continuing to
    enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales
    force. We cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will
    succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of
    individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our
    results of operations and financial position could be materially
    adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and
    retaining agents.

Numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation.
    Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory
    environment can affect our competitive position within the life
    insurance industry and within the broader financial services
    industry. See    Regulation,   Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and  Risk Factors
      Changes in U.S. Federal and State Securities
    Laws and Regulations May Affect Our Operations and Our
    Profitability. 

Company
    Ratings  

Insurer financial strength ratings represent the opinions of
    rating agencies, including A.M. Best Company
    ( A.M. Best ), Fitch Ratings ( Fitch ),
    Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) and
    Standard   Poor s Ratings Services
    ( S P ), regarding the ability of an insurance
    company to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and
    contractholders. Credit ratings represent the opinions of rating
    agencies regarding an issuer s ability to repay its
    indebtedness.

Rating
    Stability Indicators   

Rating agencies use an  outlook statement  of
     positive,   stable,   negative 
    or  developing  to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    rating change. A rating may have a  stable  outlook to
    indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a
     stable  rating does not preclude a rating agency from
    changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain rating
    agencies assign rating modifiers such as  CreditWatch 
    or  Under Review  to indicate their opinion regarding
    the potential direction of a rating. These ratings modifiers are
    generally assigned in connection with certain events such as
    potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a
    company s results, in order for the rating agencies to
    perform its analysis to fully determine the rating implications
    of the event. See  Risk Factors   A Downgrade or
    a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or Credit
    Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations. 

Rating
    Actions   

Throughout 2009, A.M. Best, Fitch, Moody s, and
    S P maintained its outlook for the U.S. life insurance
    sector as negative. We believe the rating agencies have
    heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to such
    institutions, increased the frequency and scope of their credit
    reviews, and have requested additional information from the
    companies that they rate. In December 2009 and February 2010,
    Moody s and Fitch, respectively, downgraded by one notch
    the insurer financial strength and credit ratings assigned to
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries and each raised the rating
    outlook from  negative  to  stable.  In
    February 2010, S P and A.M. Best each placed the
    ratings of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries on
     CreditWatch with negative implications  and

23

Table of Contents   

Under Review with negative implications, 
    respectively, based on our disclosure of a potential
    acquisition. Our insurer financial strength ratings and credit
    ratings at the date of this filing are listed in the tables
    below:

Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings   

A.M. Best (1)* 

Fitch (2) 

Moody s (3) 

S P (4)** 

First MetLife Investors Insurance Company

A+

N/R

N/R

AA 

General American Life Insurance Company

A+

AA 

Aa3

AA 

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut

A+

AA 

Aa3

AA 

MetLife Investors Insurance Company

A+

AA 

Aa3

AA 

MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company

A+

AA 

Aa3

AA 

Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Direct Property and Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan General Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Group Property   Casualty Insurance
    Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company

A+

AA 

Aa3

AA 

Metropolitan Lloyds Insurance Company of Texas

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company

A

N/R

N/R

N/R

Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company

A+

N/R

Aa3

N/R

New England Life Insurance Company

A+

AA 

Aa3

AA 

Credit
    Ratings   

A.M. Best (1)* 

Fitch (2) 

Moody s (3) 

S P (4)** 

General American Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)

a

N/R

A2

A

MetLife Capital Trust IV   X
    (Trust Securities)

bbb

BBB

Baa2

BBB

MetLife Funding, Inc. (Commercial Paper)

AMB-1+

F1+

P-1

A-1+

MetLife Short Term Funding LLC (Commercial Paper)

N/R

N/R

P-1

A-1+

MetLife, Inc. (Commercial Paper)

AMB-1

F1

P-2

A-2

MetLife, Inc. (Senior Unsecured Debt)

a 

A 

A3

A 

MetLife, Inc. (Subordinated Debt)

bbb+

N/R

Baa1

NR

MetLife, Inc. (Junior Subordinated Debt)

bbb

BBB

Baa2

BBB

MetLife, Inc. (Preferred Stock)

bbb

NR

Baa2

BBB

MetLife, Inc. (Non Cumulative Preferred Stock)

bbb

BBB

Baa2

BBB 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (Surplus Notes)

a

A

A2

A

Metropolitan Life Global Funding I (Senior Secured Debt)

aa 

NR

Aa3

AA 

MetLife Institutional Funding I, LLC (Senior Secured Debt)

aa 

NR

Aa3

AA 

*   

Under Review with negative implications 

**   

CreditWatch negative outlook 

(1)  

A.M. Best financial strength ratings range from  A++
    (superior)  to  S (Suspended).  Ratings of
     A+  and  A  are in the  superior 
    and  excellent  categories, respectively. 

A.M. Best s long-term credit ratings range from
     aaa (exceptional)  to  d (in default).  A
     +  or     may be appended to ratings
    from  aa  to  ccc  to indicate relative
    position within a category. Ratings of  a  and
     bbb  are in the  strong  and
     adequate  categories. 

A.M. Best s short-term credit ratings range from
     AMB-1+ (strongest)  to  d (in default).  

(2)  

Fitch insurer financial strength ratings range from  AAA
    (exceptionally strong)  to  C (ceased or interrupted
    payments imminent).  A  +  or    
    may be appended to ratings from  AA  to
     CCC  to indicate relative position within a category.
    A rating of  AA  is in the  very strong 
    category. 

24

Table of Contents   

Fitch long-term credit ratings range from  AAA (highest
    credit quality),  to  D (default).  A
     +  or     may be appended to ratings
    from  AA  to  CCC  to indicate relative
    position within a category. Ratings of  A  and
     BBB  are in the  strong  and
     adequate  categories, respectively. 

Fitch short-term credit ratings range from  F1+
    (exceptionally strong credit quality)  to  D (in
    default).  A rating of  F1  is in the
     highest credit quality  category. 

(3)  

Moody s insurance financial strength ratings range from
     Aaa (exceptional)  to  C (extremely poor). 
    A numeric modifier may be appended to ratings from
     Aa  to  Caa  to indicate relative position
    within a category, with 1 being the highest and 3 being the
    lowest. A rating of  Aa  is in the
     excellent  category. Moody s long-term credit
    ratings range from  Aaa (highest quality)  to  C
    (typically in default).  A numeric modifier may be appended
    to ratings from  Aa  to  Caa  to indicate
    relative position within a category, with 1 being the highest
    and 3 being the lowest. Ratings of  A  and
     Baa  are in the  upper-medium grade  and
     medium-grade  categories, respectively. 

Moody s short-term credit ratings range from
      P-1 
    (superior)  to  NP (not prime).  

(4)  

S P long-term insurer financial strength ratings range from
     AAA (extremely strong)  to  R (under regulatory
    supervision).  A  +  or     may
    be appended to ratings from  AA  to  CCC  to
    indicate relative position within a category. A rating of
     AA  is in the  very strong  category. 

S P long-term credit ratings range from  AAA
    (extremely strong)  to  D (payment default).  A
     +  or     may be appended to ratings
    from  AA  to  CCC  to indicate relative
    position within a category. A rating of  A  is in the
     strong  category. A rating of  BBB  has
    adequate protection parameters and is considered investment
    grade. 

S P short-term credit ratings range from
      A-1+ 
    (extremely strong)  to  D (payment default).  A
    rating of
      A-1  
    is in the  strong  category. 

N/R  

indicates not rated. 

The foregoing insurer financial strength ratings reflect each
    rating agency s opinion of MLIC and the Holding
    Company s other insurance subsidiaries  financial
    characteristics with respect to their ability to pay obligations
    under insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their
    terms, and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of
    investors in the Holding Company s securities. Credit
    ratings are opinions of each agency with respect to specific
    securities and contractual financial obligations and the
    issuer s ability and willingness to meet those obligations
    when due. Neither insurer financial strength nor credit ratings
    are statements of fact nor are they recommendations to purchase,
    hold or sell any security, contract or policy. Each rating
    should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

A ratings downgrade (or the potential for such a downgrade) of
    MLIC or any of the Holding Company s other insurance
    subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, increase the
    number of policies surrendered and withdrawals by policyholders
    of cash values from their policies, adversely affect
    relationships with broker-dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers
    and other distributors of our products and services, negatively
    impact new sales, and adversely affect our ability to compete
    and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition. See also
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources  for a more complete description of the
    impact of a ratings downgrade.

Employees  

At December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    54,000 employees. We believe that our relations with our
    employees are satisfactory.

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers
    of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC:

C. Robert Henrikson,  age 62, has been Chairman,
    President and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 25, 2006. Previously, he was President and
    Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from
    March 1, 2006, President and Chief Operating Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from June 2004, and President of

25

Table of Contents   

the U.S. Insurance and Financial Services businesses of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from July 2002 to June 2004. He served as
    President of Institutional Business of MetLife, Inc. from
    September 1999 to July 2002 and President of Institutional
    Business of MLIC from May 1999 through June 2002. He was Senior
    Executive Vice President, Institutional Business, of MLIC from
    December 1997 to May 1999, Executive Vice President,
    Institutional Business, from January 1996 to December 1997, and
    Senior Vice President, Pensions, from January 1991 to January
    1995. He is a director of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC.

Gwenn L. Carr,  age 64, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009. Previously,
    she was Senior Vice President and Chief of Staff to the Chairman
    and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from June
    2009, Senior Vice President, Secretary and Chief of Staff to the
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MetLife, Inc, and MLIC
    from 2007, Senior Vice President and Secretary of MetLife, Inc.
    and MLIC from October 2004, and Vice President and Secretary of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from August 1999. Ms. Carr was Vice
    President and Secretary of ITT Corporation from 1990 to 1999.

Steven A. Kandarian,  age 57, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since April 2005. Previously, he was the executive director of
    the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation from 2001 to 2004.
    Before joining the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
    Mr. Kandarian was founder and managing partner of Orion
    Capital Partners, LP, where he managed a private equity fund
    specializing in venture capital and corporate acquisitions for
    eight years. He is a director of MetLife Bank.

James L. Lipscomb,  age 63, has been Executive Vice
    President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since
    July 2003. He was Senior Vice President and Deputy General
    Counsel from July 2001 to July 2003. Mr. Lipscomb was
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Conning Corporation, a
    former subsidiary of MLIC, from March 2000 to July 2001, prior
    to which he served in various senior management positions with
    MLIC for more than five years.

Maria R. Morris,  age 47, has been Executive Vice
    President, Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since January 2008. Previously, she was Executive Vice President
    of MLIC from December 2005 to January 2008, Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from July 2003 to December 2005, and Vice
    President of MLIC from March 1997 to July 2003. Ms. Morris
    is a director of MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut.

William J. Mullaney,  age 50, has been President,
    U.S. Business of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since August 2009.
    Previously, he was President, Institutional Business, of
    MetLife, Inc. and MLIC from January 2007 to July 2009, President
    of Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from
    January 2005 to January 2007, Senior Vice President of
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company from July
    2002 to December 2004, Senior Vice President, Institutional
    Business, of MLIC from August 2001 to July 2002, and a Vice
    President of MLIC for more than five years. He is a director of
    MetLife Bank.

William J. Toppeta,  age 61, has been President,
    International, of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC since June 2001. He was
    President of Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of
    MetLife, Inc. from September 1999 to June 2001 and President of
    Client Services and Chief Administrative Officer of MLIC from
    May 1999 to June 2001. He was Senior Executive Vice President,
    Head of Client Services, of MLIC from March 1999 to May 1999,
    Senior Executive Vice President, Individual, from February 1998
    to March 1999, Executive Vice President, Individual Business,
    from July 1996 to February 1998, Senior Vice President from
    October 1995 to July 1996 and President and Chief Executive
    Officer of its Canadian Operations from July 1993 to October
    1995.

William J. Wheeler,  age 48, has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. and MLIC
    since December 2003, prior to which he was a Senior Vice
    President of MLIC from 1997 to December 2003. Previously, he was
    a Senior Vice President of Donaldson, Lufkin  
    Jenrette for more than five years. Mr. Wheeler is a
    director of MetLife Bank.

Trademarks  

We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider
    important in the marketing of our products and services,
    including, among others, the trademark  MetLife.  We
    also have the exclusive license to use the
    Peanuts   

    characters in the area of financial services and healthcare
    benefit services in the United States and internationally

26

Table of Contents   

under an advertising and premium agreement with United Feature
    Syndicate until December 31, 2014. Furthermore, we also
    have a non-exclusive license to use certain Citigroup-owned
    trademarks in connection with the marketing, distribution or
    sale of life insurance and annuity products under a licensing
    agreement with Citigroup until June 30, 2015. We believe
    that our rights in our trademarks and under our
    Peanuts   

    characters license and our Citigroup license are well protected.

Available
    Information  

MetLife files periodic reports, proxy statements and other
    information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and
    other information may be obtained by visiting the Public
    Reference Room of the SEC at its Headquarters Office,
    100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549 or by
    calling the SEC at 1-202-551-8090 or
     1-800-SEC-0330 
    (Office of Investor Education and Advocacy). In addition, the
    SEC maintains an internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains
    reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including
    MetLife, Inc.

MetLife makes available, free of charge, on its website
    (www.metlife.com) through the Investor Relations page, its
    annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to all those reports, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing (furnishing) such reports to the SEC.
    Other information found on the website is not part of this or
    any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Difficult
    Conditions in the Global Capital Markets and the Economy
    Generally May Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and
    Results of Operations and These Conditions May Not Improve in
    the Near Future   

Our business and results of operations are materially affected
    by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy
    generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the
    world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that
    began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially
    increased during 2008 and into 2009. Concerns over the
    availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market,
    geopolitical issues, energy costs, inflation and a declining
    real estate market in the United States contributed to increased
    volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the
    markets in the near term. These factors, combined with declining
    business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment,
    precipitated a recession. Most economists believe this recession
    ended in the third quarter of 2009, when positive growth
    returned, and now expect positive growth will continue in 2010.
    However, the expected recovery is weaker than normal, and the
    unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. In
    addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced a period of
    extreme volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity
    conditions. Initially, the concerns on the part of market
    participants were focused on the
     sub-prime 
    segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. However, these
    concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and
    asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those
    rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit
    and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of
    financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors.
    Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and
    have less opportunity for disposal. Domestic and international
    equity markets have also experienced heightened volatility and
    turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure
    to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly
    affected. These events and continued market upheavals may have
    an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large
    investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer
    behavior. Our revenues are likely to decline in such
    circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition,
    in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the
    global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital or
    operating losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we
    are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility.

We are a significant writer of variable annuity products. The
    account values of these products decrease as a result of
    downturns in capital markets. Decreases in account values reduce
    the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the
    amortization of deferred acquisition costs to accelerate and
    could increase the level of liabilities we must carry to support
    those variable annuities issued with any associated guarantees.

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment,
    government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital
    markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic
    environment and, ultimately, the amount and

27

Table of Contents   

profitability of our business. In an economic downturn
    characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower
    corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer
    spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products
    could be adversely affected. In addition, we may experience an
    elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of
    policies. Our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance
    premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. Adverse
    changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition. The recent market turmoil
    has also raised the possibility of legislative, regulatory and
    governmental actions. We cannot predict whether or when such
    actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could
    have on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition. See    Actions of the
    U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Other
    Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife s Competitive
    Position,      Our Insurance and Banking
    Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and Changes in
    Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and Limit Our
    Growth  and    Competitive Factors May
    Adversely Affect Our Market Share and Profitability .

Adverse
    Capital and Credit Market Conditions May Significantly Affect
    Our Ability to Meet Liquidity Needs, Access to Capital and Cost
    of Capital   

The capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods
    of extreme volatility and disruption. Such volatility and
    disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain
    issuers to be limited.

We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our
    debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities
    lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities.
    Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our
    operations, and our business will suffer. The principal sources
    of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations,
    deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and
    assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily
    convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets
    also include short-term instruments such as repurchase
    agreements and commercial paper. Sources of capital in normal
    markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term
    debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities
    and equity securities.

In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact
    on our capital and liquidity beyond expectations and our current
    resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek
    additional financing. The availability of additional financing
    will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions,
    regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit,
    the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of
    credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings
    and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers
    or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or
    short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment
    losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to
    a market downturn. Similarly, our access to funds may be
    impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take
    negative actions against us. Our internal sources of liquidity
    may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be
    able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable
    terms, or at all.

Our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we
    are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on
    short notice under securities lending agreements.

Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit
    markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate
    our business, most significantly our insurance operations. Such
    market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely
    manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital
    requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our
    business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital,
    issue different types of securities than we would otherwise,
    less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor
    securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of
    capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly
    reduce our financial flexibility. Our results of operations,
    financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position
    could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the
    financial markets.

28

Table of Contents   

Actions
    of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and
    Other Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife s Competitive
    Position   

In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system
    and financial markets and going concern threats to investment
    banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008,
    President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
    of 2008 ( EESA ) into law. Pursuant to EESA, the
    U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things,
    purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other
    securities (including newly issued preferred shares and
    subordinated debt) from financial institutions for the purpose
    of stabilizing the financial markets. The U.S. federal
    government, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the FDIC and
    other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are
    considering taking other actions to address the financial
    crisis. For example, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York made
    funds available to commercial and financial companies under a
    number of programs, including the Commercial Paper Funding
    Facility, which expired in early 2010. The U.S. Treasury
    has established programs based in part on EESA and in part on
    the separate authority of the Federal Reserve Board and the
    FDIC, to foster purchases from and by banks, insurance companies
    and other financial institutions of certain kinds of assets for
    which valuations have been low and markets weak. Some of the
    programs established by governmental and regulatory bodies have
    recently been discontinued or will be in the near term. We
    cannot predict what impact, if any, this could have on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.

Although such actions appear to have provided some stability to
    the financial markets, our business, financial condition and
    results of operations and the trading price of our common stock
    could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that
    credit availability and prices for financial assets revert to
    their low levels of late 2008 and early 2009 or do not continue
    to improve. Furthermore, Congress has considered, and may
    consider in the future, legislative proposals that could impact
    the estimated fair value of mortgage loans, such as legislation
    that would permit bankruptcy courts to rewrite the terms of a
    mortgage contract, including reducing the principal balance of
    mortgage loans owed by bankrupt borrowers. If such legislation
    is enacted, it could cause loss of principal on certain of our
    non-agency prime RMBS holdings and could cause a ratings
    downgrade in such holdings which, in turn, would cause an
    increase in unrealized losses on such securities and increase
    the risk-based capital that we must hold to support such
    securities. See     We Are Exposed to Significant
    Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which May Adversely Affect
    Our Results of Operations, Financial Condition and Liquidity,
    and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary from Period to
    Period.  In addition, the U.S. federal government
    (including the FDIC) and private lenders have begun programs to
    reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors
     and/or 
    reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. As a
    result, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in
    similar activities in order to comply with program requirements
    and to remain competitive. We cannot predict whether the funds
    made available by the U.S. federal government and its
    agencies will be enough to continue stabilizing or to further
    revive the financial markets or, if additional amounts are
    necessary, whether Congress will be willing to make the
    necessary appropriations, what the public s sentiment would
    be towards any such appropriations, or what additional
    requirements or conditions might be imposed on the use of any
    such additional funds.

President Obama has proposed a  Financial Crisis
    Responsibility Fee  which would be imposed on financial
    firms with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets.
    The fee is intended to recover the cost of the Troubled Assets
    Relief Program established under EESA, which the Obama
    Administration currently estimates will be $117 billion.
    The fee would be imposed annually on covered financial firms for
    at least ten years and possibly longer. As a bank holding
    company with more than $50 billion of consolidated assets,
    MetLife appears to be subject to the proposed fee. Full details
    of the proposed fee, the companies subject to it, and the manner
    in which it would be assessed have not yet been released, so we
    cannot estimate its financial impact on us. However, it is
    possible that the proposed fee could have a material adverse
    impact on our results of operations.

The choices made by the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve
    Board and the FDIC in their distribution of amounts available
    under EESA and any of the proposed new asset purchase programs
    could have the effect of supporting some aspects of the
    financial services industry more than others. Some of our
    competitors have received, or may in the future receive, funding
    under one or more of the federal government s capital
    infusion programs. This

29

Table of Contents   

could adversely affect our competitive position. See
        Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect Our
    Market Share and Profitability. 

See also    Proposals to Regulate Compensation,
    if Implemented, Could Hinder or Prevent Us From Attracting and
    Retaining Management and Other Employees with the Talent and
    Experience to Manage and Conduct Our Business Effectively 
    and    Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth. 

Our
    Insurance and Banking Businesses Are Heavily Regulated, and
    Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our Profitability and
    Limit Our Growth   

Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of
    insurance and other laws and regulations. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation.  State insurance laws regulate most aspects of
    our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance
    subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the
    states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they
    are licensed. Our
     non-U.S. insurance 
    operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory
    authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and
    operate.

State laws in the United States grant insurance regulatory
    authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among
    other things:

licensing companies and agents to transact business;

calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with
    statutory requirements;

mandating certain insurance benefits;

regulating certain premium rates;

reviewing and approving policy forms;

regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through
    the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices,
    distribution arrangements and payment of inducements;

regulating advertising;

protecting privacy;

establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and
    solvency standards;

fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and
    minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance
    policies and annuity contracts;

approving changes in control of insurance companies;

restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions
    between affiliates; and

regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments.

State insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess
    insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to
    policyholders and claimants. Because the amount and timing of an
    assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have
    currently established for these potential liabilities may not be
    adequate. See  Business   Regulation  
    Insurance Regulation   Guaranty Associations and
    Similar Arrangements. 

State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly
     re-examine 
    existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies
    and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

The NAIC and several states  legislatures have considered
    the need for regulations
     and/or  laws
    to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of
    investigations of broker compensation in the State of New York
    and in

30

Table of Contents   

other jurisdictions. The NAIC adopted a Compensation Disclosure
    Amendment to its Producers Licensing Model Act which, if adopted
    by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to
    customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers
    for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of
    this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates
    the agent or broker. Several states have enacted laws similar to
    the NAIC amendment. Others have enacted laws or proposed
    disclosure regulations which, under differing circumstances,
    require disclosure of specific compensation earned by a producer
    on the sale of an insurance or annuity product. We cannot
    predict how many states may promulgate the NAIC amendment or
    alternative regulations or the extent to which these regulations
    may have a material adverse impact on our business.

Currently, the U.S. federal government does not directly
    regulate the business of insurance. However, federal legislation
    and administrative policies in several areas can significantly
    and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include
    financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension
    regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform
    legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct
    and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed
    from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of
    an optional federal charter for insurance companies. As part of
    a proposed comprehensive reform of financial services
    regulation, Congress is considering the creation of an office
    within the federal government to collect information about the
    insurance industry, recommend prudential standards, and
    represent the United States in dealings with foreign insurance
    regulators.

Other aspects of financial services regulatory reform proposals
    that have been considered could affect our business. For example:

The Obama Administration and Congress have made various
    proposals that would change the capital and liquidity
    requirements, credit exposure concentrations and similar
    prudential matters for bank holding companies, banks and other
    financial firms.

Bank regulatory agencies have issued proposed interagency
    guidance for funding and liquidity risk management that would
    apply to MetLife as a bank holding company.

The proposals under consideration in Congress also include
    special regulatory and insolvency regimes, including even higher
    capital, prudential and liquidity standards for financial
    institutions that are deemed to be systemically significant.
    These insolvency regimes could vary from the resolution regimes
    currently applicable to some subsidiaries of such companies and
    could include assessments on financial companies to provide for
    a systemic resolution fund.

The Obama Administration, members of Congress and Federal
    banking regulators have suggested new or increased taxes or
    assessments on banks and financial firms to mitigate the costs
    to taxpayers of various government programs established to
    address the financial crisis and to offset the costs of
    potential future crises. See    Actions of the
    U.S. Government, Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Other
    Governmental and Regulatory Bodies for the Purpose of
    Stabilizing and Revitalizing the Financial Markets and
    Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not Achieve the Intended
    Effect or Could Adversely Affect MetLife s Competitive
    Position. 

The proposed legislation also includes new conditions on the
    writing and trading of certain standardized and non-standardized
    derivatives.

The creation of an additional supervisor with authority over
    MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, the likelihood of additional
    regulations, and the other changes discussed above could require
    changes to MetLife s operations. Whether such changes would
    affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions
    is uncertain, since it is possible that at least some of our
    competitors will be similarly affected. Competitive effects are
    possible, however, if MetLife, Inc. were required to pay any new
    or increased taxes, or if it were determined to be systemically
    significant and were subjected to higher capital and liquidity
    requirements and generally stricter prudential supervisory
    standards as a result. It is unclear at present whether
    systemically significant institutions will be helped or hurt
    competitively if such additional requirements are imposed. We
    cannot predict whether these or other proposals will be adopted,
    or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such
    laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results
    of operations or on our dealings with other financial
    institutions.

31

Table of Contents   

As a federally chartered national association, MetLife Bank is
    subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and
    guidelines. Federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the
    business of MetLife Bank, but certain state laws may apply as
    well. MetLife Bank is principally regulated by the OCC, the
    Federal Reserve and the FDIC.

Federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of
    MetLife Bank s business and operations with respect to,
    among other things:

chartering to carry on business as a bank;

maintaining minimum capital ratios;

capital management in relation to the bank s assets;

safety and soundness standards;

loan loss and other related liabilities;

liquidity;

financial reporting and disclosure standards;

counterparty credit concentration;

restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions;

lending limits;

payment of interest;

unfair or deceptive acts or practices;

privacy; and

bank holding company and bank change of control.

Furthermore, Congress is considering establishing a new
    governmental agency that would supervise and regulate
    institutions that provide certain financial products and
    services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services
    to which this legislation would apply might exclude certain
    insurance business, the new agency would have authority to
    regulate consumer services provided by MetLife Bank. Federal
    pre-emption of state consumer protection laws applicable to
    banking services may be eliminated or significantly restricted
    in any financial services regulatory reform legislation that
    Congress may pass, which would increase the regulatory and
    compliance burden on MetLife Bank and could adversely affect its
    business and results of operations.

The FDIC has the right to assess FDIC-insured banks for funds to
    help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors.
    Because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our
    control, the liabilities that we have currently established for
    these potential liabilities may not be adequate.

Federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine
    existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their
    products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in
    interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the
    consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a
    material adverse effect on the financial condition and results
    of operations of MetLife Bank.

Our international operations are subject to regulation in the
    jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is
    similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. Many of
    our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate
    in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that
    affect their operations also may affect our business
    relationships with them and their ability to purchase or
    distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. See    Our International
    Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and Other Risks
    that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability. 

Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time
    consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and
    regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect
    compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations.

32

Table of Contents   

From time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations
    or audits of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries that could, if
    determined adversely, have a material impact on us. We cannot
    predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that
    could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the
    interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and
    statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in
    areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements.

We are also subject to other regulations, including banking
    regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional
    regulations. See  Business   Regulation. 

We Are
    Exposed to Significant Financial and Capital Markets Risk Which
    May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Financial
    Condition and Liquidity, and Our Net Investment Income Can Vary
    from Period to Period   

We are exposed to significant financial and capital markets
    risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange
    rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in
    general, the performance of the specific obligors included in
    our portfolio and other factors outside our control.

Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the
    market price and cash flow variability associated with changes
    in interest rates. A rise in interest rates will increase the
    net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically
    within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life
    insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk.
    Disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders
    may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate
    environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments
    in an unrealized loss position. Due to the long-term nature of
    the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance
    businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and
    structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest
    rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging
    costs. In other situations, declines in interest rates may
    result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance
    liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches. Our
    investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive
    instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be
    adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
    governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
    economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our
    control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net
    unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment
    portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return
    on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates
    would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our fixed
    income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on
    funds reinvested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to
    interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an
    investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a
    weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the
    duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. However,
    our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be
    inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income
    investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the
    liability. Although we take measures to manage the economic
    risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we
    may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed
    income investments relative to our liabilities. See also
       Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability. 

Our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price
    and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit
    spreads. A widening of credit spreads will increase the net
    unrealized loss position of the fixed-income investment
    portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based
    non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and,
    if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an
    extended period of time, would likely result in higher
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments ( OTTI ). Credit spread tightening will
    reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of
    fixed maturity securities. In addition, market volatility can
    make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading
    becomes less frequent. As such, valuations may include
    assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to
    period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations or financial condition.
    Credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities
    widened significantly during 2008, resulting in continuing
    depressed pricing. As a result of improved conditions, credit
    spreads narrowed in 2009. If there is a resumption of
    significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in
    credit spreads and defaults  and a lack of pricing transparency
    which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
    condition,

33

Table of Contents   

liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses,
    impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. See also
       Guarantees Within Certain of Our Variable
    Annuity Guarantee Benefits that Protect Policyholders Against
    Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Increase the
    Volatility of Our Results Related to the Inclusion of an Own
    Credit Adjustment in the Estimated Fair Value of the Liability
    for These Guaranteed Benefits. 

Our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for
    lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance
    businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated
    fair value of the assets under management. Equity market
    downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate
    account products, such as variable annuities and variable life
    insurance that have underlying mutual funds with returns linked
    to the performance of the equity markets, and may cause some of
    our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce
    investments in those products. In addition, downturns and
    volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect
    on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment
    products and services. Because these products and services
    depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under
    management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our
    revenues by reducing the value of the investments we manage. The
    retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to
    equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets
    could decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity
    products. Furthermore, certain of our annuity products offer
    guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit
    exposure should equity markets decline. The Company uses
    derivatives to mitigate the impact of such increased potential
    benefit exposures. We are also exposed to interest rate and
    equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term
    rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other
    postretirement benefit obligations. Sustained declines in
    long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a
    negative effect on the funded status of these plans.

We also provide certain guarantees within some of our products
    that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the
    equity markets. For example, we offer variable annuity products
    with guaranteed features, such as death benefits, withdrawal
    benefits, and minimum accumulation and income benefits. In
    volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to
    increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder
    account balances, negatively affecting our net income. The
    Company uses derivatives to mitigate the impact of volatile or
    declining equity market conditions. A decline in equity markets
    also may reduce the estimated fair value of the investments
    supporting our pension and post retirement benefit plan
    obligations, changing the funded status of such plans, and
    adversely affect our results of operations. Lastly, we invest a
    portion of our investments in equity securities, leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and
    the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by
    downturns or volatility in equity markets.

Our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial
    and agricultural real estate. Our exposure to commercial and
    agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. These
    factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions
    including the demand and supply of space, creditworthiness of
    tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the
    inherent interest rate movement. Recently, a significantly
    weakened economic environment has led to declining commercial
    real estate tenant demand, increasing vacancy rates and
    declining property incomes. In addition, capital market
    conditions and accessibility to financing has prompted an
    increase in the risk premiums assessed in the sector. These
    trends have resulted in decreases in the value of our equity
    commercial real estate holdings, and deterioration in the value
    of the collateral securing our commercial mortgages. In
    addition, our real estate joint venture development program is
    subject to risks including, but not limited to, reduced property
    sales and decreased availability of financing which could
    adversely impact the joint venture developments
     and/or 
    operations. The state of the economy and speed of recovery in
    fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and
    agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the
    performance of our investments in these sectors. These factors
    and others beyond our control could have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
    condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment
    income, realized investment losses and impairments.

Our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under
       Fluctuations in Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates and Foreign Securities Markets Could Negatively Affect Our
    Profitability.  Significant declines in equity prices,
    changes in U.S. interest rates, changes in credit spreads,
    and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial condition or liquidity. Changes in these
    factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net
    investment income in any period, and such changes can be
    substantial.

34

Table of Contents   

A portion of our investments are made in leveraged buy-out
    funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds reported
    within other limited partnership interests, many of which make
    private equity investments. The amount and timing of net
    investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven
    as a result of the performance of the underlying investments,
    including private equity investments. The timing of
    distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events
    relating to the underlying investments, as well as the
    funds  schedules for making distributions and their needs
    for cash, can be difficult to predict. As a result, the amount
    of net investment income that we record from these investments
    can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Recent equity,
    real estate and credit market volatility have further reduced
    net investment income and related yields for these types of
    investments and we may continue to experience reduced net
    investment income due to continued volatility in the equity,
    real estate and credit markets in 2010.

In 2009, the disruption in the global financial markets
    moderated, although not all markets are functioning normally and
    many remain reliant upon government investments and liquidity.
    Continuing challenges include continued weakness in the
    U.S. real estate market and increased mortgage loan
    delinquencies, investor anxiety over the U.S. economy,
    rating agency downgrades of various structured products and
    financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment
    vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging
    of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious
    dislocation in the inter-bank market. If there is a resumption
    of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes
    in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the
    strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the
    U.S. Dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated results of
    operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through
    realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in
    unrealized loss positions.

Changes
    in Market Interest Rates May Significantly Affect Our
    Profitability   

Some of our products, principally traditional whole life
    insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts,
    expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce
    our  spread,  or the difference between the amounts
    that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general
    account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general
    account investments intended to support obligations under the
    contracts. Our spread is a key component of our net income.

As interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be
    forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured
    or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our
    investment margin. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the
    fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio
    with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates,
    which exacerbates this risk. Lowering interest crediting rates
    can help offset decreases in investment margins on some
    products. However, our ability to lower these rates could be
    limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates
    and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset
    yields. As a result, our spread could decrease or potentially
    become negative. Our expectation for future spreads is an
    important component in the amortization of DAC and VOBA, and
    significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate
    amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected
    reporting period. In addition, during periods of declining
    interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be
    relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting
    in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium
    features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency,
    or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force
    from year to year, during a period when our new investments
    carry lower returns. A decline in market interest rates could
    also reduce our return on investments that do not support
    particular policy obligations. Accordingly, declining interest
    rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations,
    financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our
    profitability.

The sufficiency of our life insurance statutory reserves in
    Taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related
    assumptions. This is due to the sustained low interest rate
    environment in Taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate
    guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health
    contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of
    long-duration investments in the Taiwanese capital markets to
    match such long-duration liabilities. The key assumptions
    include current Taiwan government bond yield rates increasing
    from current levels of 1.8% to 3.0% over the next ten years, a
    modest increase in lapse rates, mortality and morbidity levels
    remaining consistent with recent experience, and
    U.S. Dollar-denominated investments making up 35% of total
    assets backing

35

Table of Contents   

life insurance statutory reserves. Current statutory reserve
    adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate; however,
    adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates, lapse
    experience and mortality and morbidity levels could lead to a
    need to strengthen reserves.

Increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect
    our profitability. In periods of rapidly increasing interest
    rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the
    investments in MetLife s general account with higher
    yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates
    necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. We,
    therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower
    profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of
    existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy
    loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as
    policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as
    interest rates rise. This process may result in cash outflows
    requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of
    those investments are adversely affected by the increase in
    market interest rates, which may result in realized investment
    losses. Unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us
    to accelerate the amortization of DAC and VOBA, which would
    increase our current expenses and reduce net income. An increase
    in market interest rates could also have a material adverse
    effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by
    decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income
    securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment
    portfolio. Lastly, an increase in interest rates could result in
    decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of
    variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds.

Some
    of Our Investments Are Relatively Illiquid and Are in Asset
    Classes that Have Been Experiencing Significant Market Valuation
    Fluctuations   

We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as
    privately-placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans;
    policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including
    real estate joint ventures and funds; and other limited
    partnership interests. These asset classes represented 33.2% of
    the carrying value of our total cash and investments at
    December 31, 2009. Even some of our very high quality
    investments have been more illiquid as a result of the current
    market conditions.

If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in
    excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or
    return cash collateral in connection with our investment
    portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending
    program, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a
    timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise
    would have been able to realize, or both.

The reported value of our relatively illiquid types of
    investments, our investments in the asset classes described
    above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset
    classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market
    price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our
    investments in the current market, there can be no assurance
    that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we
    have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at
    significantly lower prices.

Our
    Participation in a Securities Lending Program Subjects Us to
    Potential Liquidity and Other Risks   

We participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of
    securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and
    short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily
    brokerage firms and commercial banks. We generally obtain
    collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair
    value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the
    inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or
    equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. In limited
    instances, during the extraordinary market events beginning in
    the fourth quarter of 2008 and through part of 2009, we accepted
    collateral less than 102% at the inception of certain loans, but
    never less than 100%, of the estimated fair value of such loaned
    securities. At December 31, 2009, we had no loans
    outstanding where we had accepted at the inception of the loan
    collateral less than 102%, of the estimated fair value of such
    loaned securities. These loans involved U.S. Government
    Treasury Bills which we considered to have limited variation in
    their estimated fair value during the term of the loan. See
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments   Securities Lending. 

Returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require
    us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned
    securities. In addition, in some cases, the maturity of the
    securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we
    have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may
    exceed the term of the related

36

Table of Contents   

securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below
    the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. If we
    are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on
    short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the
    return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such
    collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be
    forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for
    less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under
    normal market conditions, or both. In addition, under stressful
    capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions
    we experienced during 2008 and 2009, liquidity broadly
    deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell
    securities.

If we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities
    over time, the amount of investment income generated by these
    activities will also likely decline.

Our
    Requirements to Pledge Collateral or Make Payments Related to
    Declines in Estimated Fair Value of Specified Assets May
    Adversely Affect Our Liquidity and Expose Us to Counterparty
    Credit Risk   

Some of our transactions with financial and other institutions
    specify the circumstances under which the parties are required
    to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. In addition, under the terms
    of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments
    to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the specified assets. The amount of collateral we
    may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to
    make under these agreements may increase under certain
    circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing
    Arrangements  and Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Gross
    Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities May be
    Realized or Result in Future Impairments, Resulting in a
    Reduction in Our Net Income   

Fixed maturity and equity securities classified as
     available-for-sale, 
    except trading securities, are reported at their estimated fair
    value. Unrealized gains or losses on
     available-for-sale 
    securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive
    income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. Our
    gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
    at December 31, 2009 were $10.8 billion. The portion
    of the $10.8 billion of gross unrealized losses for fixed
    maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value
    has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or
    more for six months or greater was $5.1 billion at
    December 31, 2009. The accumulated change in estimated fair
    value of these
     available-for-sale 
    securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is
    realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the
    decline in estimated fair value is determined to be
     other-than-temporary 
    and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. Realized losses
    or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net
    income in a particular quarterly or annual period.

The
    Determination of the Amount of Allowances and Impairments Taken
    on Our Investments is Highly Subjective and Could Materially
    Impact Our Results of Operations or Financial
    Position   

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments
    varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and
    reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment
    losses as such evaluations are revised. There can be no
    assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of
    impairments taken and allowances provided as reflected in our
    consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, additional
    impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in
    the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future
    impairments or allowances.

For example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be
     other-than-temporary 
    that are charged to earnings in the period in which the
    determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments
    have occurred is based on our
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The review of our fixed maturity and
    equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the
    total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities:
    (i) securities where the estimated fair

37

Table of Contents   

value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by
    less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair
    value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by
    20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities
    where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below
    cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater.

Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the
    security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates
    about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings
    potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process
    include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and
    the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost
    or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of
    securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial
    difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an
    entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed
    maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will
    more likely than not be required to sell a particular security
    before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below
    cost or amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity
    securities, whether we have the ability and intent to hold a
    particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for
    the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least
    equal to its cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted
    cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and
    (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

Defaults
    on Our Mortgage Loans and Volatility in Performance May
    Adversely Affect Our Profitability   

Our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally
    collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential
    properties, as well as automobiles. The carrying value of
    mortgage loans is stated at original cost net of repayments,
    amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation
    allowances, except for residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at
    estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis, and
    certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the
    lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a
    nonrecurring basis. We establish valuation allowances for
    estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. Such valuation
    allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan
    over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted
    at the loan s original effective interest rate, the
    estimated fair value of the loan s collateral if the loan
    is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral
    dependent, or the loan s observable market price if the
    loan is
     held-for-sale. 
    We also establish valuation allowances for loan losses when a
    loss contingency exists for pools of loans with similar
    characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar
    property types or loans having similar
     loan-to-value 
    or similar debt service coverage factors. At December 31,
    2009, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of
    foreclosure totaled less than 0.5% of our mortgage loan
    investments. The performance of our mortgage loan investments,
    however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition, substantially
    all of our mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate
    of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition through realized investment losses or increases in our
    valuation allowances. See  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Investments   Mortgage
    Loans. 

Further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage
    loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and
    consequently on our consolidated results of operations or
    financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by
    having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments
    that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region
    or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment
    portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated.
    Moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular
    groups of related assets may be limited if other market
    participants are seeking to sell at the same time. In addition,
    legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications
    to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. We cannot
    predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact,
    if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on
    our business or investments.

38

Table of Contents   

The
    Impairment of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us   

We have exposure to many different industries and
    counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry, including
    brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge
    funds and other investment funds and other institutions. Many of
    these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of
    default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to
    secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when
    the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at
    prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or
    derivative exposure due to us. We also have exposure to these
    financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
    instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities,
    derivative transactions and equity investments. Further,
    potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in
    response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking
    system and financial markets, such as investment,
    nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other
    intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new
    authority that may be created, could negatively impact these
    instruments, securities, transactions and investments. There can
    be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the
    carrying value of these investments would not materially and
    adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We
    Face Unforeseen Liabilities or Asset Impairments or Rating
    Actions Arising from Possible Acquisitions and Dispositions of
    Businesses or Difficulties Integrating Such
    Businesses   

We have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses
    in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future.
    There could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments,
    including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with
    the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may
    acquire in the future. In addition, there may be liabilities or
    asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in
    the course of performing due diligence investigations on each
    business that we have acquired or may acquire. Furthermore, the
    use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would
    consume capital resources that would no longer be available for
    other corporate purposes. Moreover, as a result of uncertainty
    and risks associated with potential acquisitions and
    dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain
    actions with respect to the ratings assigned to MetLife, Inc.
     and/or  its
    subsidiaries. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Rating Actions. 

Our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any
    acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our
    ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an
    efficient and effective manner. We may not be able to integrate
    such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may
    take longer than expected. The integration of operations may
    require the dedication of significant management resources,
    which may distract management s attention from
     day-to-day 
    business. If we are unable to successfully integrate the
    operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to
    realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such
    acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be
    less than expected.

Fluctuations
    in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Foreign Securities
    Markets Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability   

We are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar resulting
    from our holdings of
     non-U.S. Dollar 
    denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and
    net income from foreign operations and issuance of
     non-U.S. Dollar 
    denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts
    and funding agreements. These risks relate to potential
    decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a
    strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the
    U.S. Dollar. In general, the weakening of foreign
    currencies versus the U.S. Dollar will adversely affect the
    estimated fair value of our
     non-U.S. Dollar 
    denominated investments and our investments in foreign
    subsidiaries. Although we use foreign currency swaps and forward
    contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we
    cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or
    that our counterparties will perform their obligations. See
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk. 

From time to time, various emerging market countries have
    experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including
    significant devaluations of their currencies. Our exposure to
    foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in
    certain emerging markets.

39

Table of Contents   

We have matched substantially all of our foreign currency
    liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments
    denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits
    the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local
    operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect
    the translation of these results into our U.S. Dollar basis
    consolidated financial statements. Although we take certain
    actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate
    fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported
    results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to
    effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange
    rate fluctuation. See  Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Our
    International Operations Face Political, Legal, Operational and
    Other Risks that Could Negatively Affect Those Operations or Our
    Profitability   

Our international operations face political, legal, operational
    and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations.
    We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization
    or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls
    or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds
    from these operations out of the countries in which they operate
    or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. Dollars or
    other currencies. Some of our foreign insurance operations are,
    and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where
    these risks are heightened. See  Quantitative and
    Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  In addition, we
    rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter
    labor problems resulting from workers  associations and
    trade unions in some countries. In Japan, China and India we
    operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of
    managing partner relationships to the business objectives. If
    our business model is not successful in a particular country, we
    may lose all or most of our investment in building and training
    the sales force in that country.

We are currently planning to expand our international operations
    in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets.
    This may require considerable management time, as well as
     start-up 
    expenses for market development before any significant revenues
    and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets
    may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in
    existing markets may be affected by local economic and market
    conditions. Therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not
    achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations
    may be negatively impacted.

In recent years, the operating environment in Argentina has been
    very challenging. In Argentina, we were formerly principally
    engaged in the pension business. In December 2008, the Argentine
    government nationalized private pensions and seized the pension
    funds  investments, eliminating the private pensions
    business in Argentina. As a result, we have experienced and will
    continue to experience reductions in the operation s
    revenues and cash flows. The Argentine government now controls
    all assets which previously were managed by our Argentine
    pension operations. Further governmental or legal actions
    related to our operations in Argentina could negatively impact
    our operations in Argentina and result in future losses.

See also    Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability  regarding the
    impact of low interest rates on our Taiwanese operations.

As a
    Holding Company, MetLife, Inc. Depends on the Ability of Its
    Subsidiaries to Transfer Funds to It to Meet Its Obligations and
    Pay Dividends   

MetLife, Inc. is a holding company for its insurance and
    financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant
    operations of its own. Dividends from its subsidiaries and
    permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with
    its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its
    obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. If the
    cash MetLife, Inc. receives from its subsidiaries is
    insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding
    company obligations, MetLife, Inc. may be required to raise cash
    through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional
    equity or the sale of assets.

The payment of dividends and other distributions to MetLife,
    Inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance
    laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of
    prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. In
    addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of
    dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to
    MetLife, Inc. if they determine that the payment could be
    adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation  and Note 18 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and

40

Table of Contents   

Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Dividends from
    Subsidiaries. 

Any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or
    advances by our foreign subsidiaries to MetLife, Inc. could be
    subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or
    repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer
    restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the
    jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. See
       Our International Operations Face Political,
    Legal, Operational and Other Risks That Could Negatively Affect
    Those Operations or Our Profitability. 

A
    Downgrade or a Potential Downgrade in Our Financial Strength or
    Credit Ratings Could Result in a Loss of Business and Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Financial strength ratings, which various Nationally Recognized
    Statistical Rating Organizations (each, an  NRSRO )
    publish as indicators of an insurance company s ability to
    meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important
    to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to
    market our products and our competitive position. See
     Business   Company Ratings   Insurer
    Financial Strength Ratings. 

Downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations in many ways, including:

reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other
    investment products;

adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and
    independent sales intermediaries;

materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders
    and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders;

requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and
    services to remain competitive; and

adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at
    reasonable prices or at all.

In addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance
    subsidiaries, various NRSROs also publish credit ratings for
    MetLife, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries. Credit ratings
    are indicators of a debt issuer s ability to meet the terms
    of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors
    in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain
    types of liquidity. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Credit Ratings.  Downgrades in our
    credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations in many ways,
    including adversely limiting our access to capital markets,
    potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to
    post collateral. For example, with respect to derivative
    transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-notch
    downgrade would have impacted our derivative collateral
    requirements by $146 million at December 31, 2009.
    Also, $480 million of liabilities associated with funding
    agreements and other capital market products were subject to
    credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination
    subject to a notice period of 90 days.

In view of the difficulties experienced during 2008 and 2009 by
    many financial institutions, including our competitors in the
    insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the NRSROs
    will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply
    to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency
    and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request
    additional information from the companies that they rate, and
    may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in
    the NRSRO models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.
    Rating agencies use an  outlook statement  of
     positive,   stable,   negative 
    or  developing  to indicate a medium- or long-term
    trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a
    ratings change. A rating may have a  stable  outlook
    to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however,
    a  stable  rating does not preclude a rating agency
    from changing a rating at any time, without notice. Certain
    rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as
     CreditWatch  or  Under Review  to indicate
    their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating.
    These ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection
    with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions,
    or material changes in a company s results, in order for
    the rating agencies to perform its analysis to fully determine
    the rating implications of the event. Certain rating agencies
    have recently implemented rating actions, including downgrades,
    outlook changes and modifiers, for MetLife, Inc. s and
    certain of its subsidiaries  insurer financial strength and
    credit ratings. See  Business   Company
    Ratings   Rating Actions. 

41

Table of Contents   

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what
    actions we may take in response to the actions of rating
    agencies, which could adversely affect our business. As with
    other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings
    could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any
    NRSRO.

An
    Inability to Access Our Credit Facilities Could Result in a
    Reduction in Our Liquidity and Lead to Downgrades in Our Credit
    and Financial Strength Ratings   

We have a $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility
    that matures in June 2012, as well as other facilities which we
    enter into in the ordinary course of business. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and
    Capital Resources   The Holding Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed
    Facilities  and Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

We rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of
    liquidity. The availability of these facilities could be
    critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our
    ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market
    when alternative sources of credit are tight. The credit
    facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. We must comply with covenants under our
    credit facilities (including the $2.85 billion five-year
    revolving credit facility), including a requirement to maintain
    a specified minimum consolidated net worth.

Our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject
    to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including
    our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow
    under these facilities is also subject to the continued
    willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the
    facilities to provide funds. Our failure to comply with the
    covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to
    borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending
    commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other
    reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the
    facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit
    facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

Defaults,
    Downgrades or Other Events Impairing the Carrying Value of Our
    Fixed Maturity or Equity Securities Portfolio May Reduce Our
    Earnings   

We are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of
    fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and
    interest payments they owe us. We are also subject to the risk
    that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities,
    including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal
    and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows
    paid to our investment. Fixed maturity securities represent a
    significant portion of our investment portfolio. The occurrence
    of a major economic downturn (such as the downturn in the
    economy during late 2008 and 2009), acts of corporate
    malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that
    adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying
    collateral of these securities could cause the estimated fair
    value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our
    earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity
    securities in our investment portfolio to increase. A ratings
    downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular
    securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit
    quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities
    in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect.
    With economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or
    guarantors could be adversely affected. Similarly, a ratings
    downgrade affecting
     asset-backed 
    securities ( ABS ) we hold could indicate the credit
    quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the
    capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our
    risk-based capital levels. Any event reducing the estimated fair
    value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition. Levels of writedowns or
    impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or
    whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to
    sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to
    hold equity securities which have declined in value until
    recovery. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of
    the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or
    intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that
    we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities
    in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will
    incur an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not
    to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the
    determination was made it is more likely than not that we will
    be required to sell the fixed maturity security.

42

Table of Contents   

Our
    Risk Management Policies and Procedures May Leave Us Exposed to
    Unidentified or Unanticipated Risk, Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Business   

Management of risk requires, among other things, policies and
    procedures to record properly and verify a large number of
    transactions and events. We have devoted significant resources
    to develop our risk management policies and procedures and
    expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our
    policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. Many of our
    methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use
    of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on
    historical models. As a result, these methods may not fully
    predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater
    than our historical measures indicate. Other risk management
    methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding
    markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that
    is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. This
    information may not always be accurate, complete,
     up-to-date 
    or properly evaluated. See  Quantitative and Qualitative
    Disclosures About Market Risk. 

Reinsurance
    May Not Be Available, Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us
    Against Losses   

As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase
    reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various
    business segments. See  Business   Reinsurance
    Activity.  While reinsurance agreements generally bind the
    reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally
    fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine
    the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new
    business. In certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for
    business already reinsured may also increase. Any decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any
    increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in
    the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. Accordingly, we
    may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or
    may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable
    terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future
    business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect
    to those policies we issue.

If the
    Counterparties to Our Reinsurance or Indemnification
    Arrangements or to the Derivative Instruments We Use to Hedge
    Our Business Risks Default or Fail to Perform, We May Be Exposed
    to Risks We Had Sought to Mitigate, Which Could Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

We use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments
    to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. In general,
    reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our
    policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us.
    Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers
    and indemnitors. We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers
    will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that
    indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or
    that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A
    reinsurer s or indemnitor s insolvency, inability or
    unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance
    agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
    operations.

In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various
    business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative
    instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit
    default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
    Investments.  If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor
    their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges
    of the related risk will be ineffective. This is a more
    pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by
    financial institutions over the past two years. Such failure
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.

Differences
    Between Actual Claims Experience and Underwriting and Reserving
    Assumptions May Adversely Affect Our Financial
    Results   

Our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our
    actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we
    use in setting prices for our products and establishing
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. Our
    liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are
    established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will
    need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance
    and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on
    many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to
    be received over the assumed

43

Table of Contents   

life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the
    insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid
    and the investment returns on the investments we make with the
    premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for property and
    casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates
    of damages and liabilities incurred. To the extent that actual
    claims experience is less favorable than the underlying
    assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could
    be required to increase our liabilities.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for
    future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely
    the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our
    liabilities. Such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts,
    particularly when those payments may not occur until well into
    the future. We evaluate our liabilities periodically based on
    changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as
    well as our actual experience. We charge or credit changes in
    our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are
    established or re-estimated. If the liabilities originally
    established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we
    must increase them. Such increases could affect earnings
    negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.

Catastrophes
    May Adversely Impact Liabilities for Policyholder Claims and
    Reinsurance Availability   

Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of
    catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that
    causes a large number of deaths. Significant influenza pandemics
    have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the
    likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be
    predicted. A significant pandemic could have a major impact on
    the global economy or the economies of particular countries or
    regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system,
    food supply, consumption, overall economic output and,
    eventually, on the financial markets. In addition, a pandemic
    that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors
    or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt
    our business operations. The effectiveness of external parties,
    including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in
    combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have
    a material impact on the losses experienced by us. In our group
    insurance operations, a localized event that affects the
    workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could
    cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims.
    These events could cause a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations in any period and, depending on their
    severity, could also materially and adversely affect our
    financial condition.

Our Auto   Home business has experienced, and will
    likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may
    have a material adverse impact on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of the Auto   Home
    segment. Although Auto   Home makes every effort to
    manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility
    management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not
    eliminate all risk. Catastrophes can be caused by various
    events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms,
    earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather
    (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards),
    fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks.
    Historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related
    claims have related to homeowners coverages. However,
    catastrophes may also affect other Auto   Home
    coverages. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence,
    timing and severity of catastrophes. In addition, changing
    climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be
    increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and
    severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes.

Hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our
    homeowners coverages. Areas of major hurricane exposure include
    coastal sections of the northeastern United States (including
    lower New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts),
    the Gulf Coast (including Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana and
    Texas) and Florida. We also have some earthquake exposure,
    primarily along the New Madrid fault line in the central United
    States and in the Pacific Northwest.

The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both
    the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the
    event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are
    restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics,
    hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce
    significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are
    heavily populated. Claims resulting from natural or man-made
    catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our
    financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could
    materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial
    condition. Also, catastrophic events could harm the financial

44

Table of Contents   

condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability
    of default on reinsurance recoveries. Our ability to write new
    business could also be affected. It is possible that increases
    in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other
    factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could
    increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the
    future.

Most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries
    are admitted to transact business require life and property and
    casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to
    participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay
    contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued
    by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These associations
    levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member
    insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate
    share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of
    business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is
    engaged. In addition, certain states have government owned or
    controlled organizations providing life and property and
    casualty insurance to their citizens. The activities of such
    organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy
    of guaranty fund assessments. Many of these organizations also
    have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the
    guaranty associations described above. Some states permit member
    insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial
    premium tax offsets. See  Business  
    Regulation   Insurance Regulation   Guaranty
    Associations and Similar Arrangements. 

While in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied
    against MetLife have not been material, it is possible that a
    large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds
    inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional
    amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial
    condition or results of operations in a particular period. We
    have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that
    we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers
    that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but
    additional liabilities may be necessary. See Note 16 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we
    establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only
    after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. We
    cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will
    be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. From time to
    time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of
    limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as
    legislation restricting an insurer s ability to withdraw
    from catastrophe-prone areas. While we attempt to limit our
    exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed
    by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or
    multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our
    property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in
    part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may
    not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future.
    See    Reinsurance May Not Be Available,
    Affordable or Adequate to Protect Us Against Losses. 

Our
    Statutory Reserve Financings May be Subject to Cost Increases
    and New Financings May be Subject to Limited Market
    Capacity   

To support statutory reserves for several products including,
    but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal
    life with secondary guarantees and MLIC s closed block, we
    currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a
    portion of our statutory reserve requirements. While we have
    financing facilities in place for our previously written
    business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to
    support writings through the end of 2010 or later, certain of
    these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the
    occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of MetLife or are
    subject to periodic repricing. Any resulting cost increases
    could negatively impact our financial results.

Future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures
    in the marketplace is not guaranteed. If capacity becomes
    unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our
    ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability
    to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be
    impacted.

45

Table of Contents   

Competitive
    Factors May Adversely Affect Our Market Share and
    Profitability   

Our business segments are subject to intense competition. We
    believe that this competition is based on a number of factors,
    including service, product features, scale, price, financial
    strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings,
     e-business 
    capabilities and name recognition. We compete with a large
    number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial
    services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset
    managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group
    customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and
    investment products. Some of these companies offer a broader
    array of products, have more competitive pricing or more
    attractive features in their products or, with respect to other
    insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. Some may
    also have greater financial resources with which to compete.
    National banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers
    in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for
    financial services products.

Many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually,
    and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be
    able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than
    renewing coverage with us. The effect of competition may, as a
    result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other
    products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.

In addition, the investment management and securities brokerage
    businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually
    attract new entrants. See  Business  
    Competition. 

Finally, the choices made by the U.S. Treasury in the
    administration of EESA and in its distribution of amounts
    available thereunder could have the effect of supporting some
    parts of the financial system more than others. See
       Actions of the U.S. Government, Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and Other Governmental and Regulatory
    Bodies for the Purpose of Stabilizing and Revitalizing the
    Financial Markets and Protecting Investors and Consumers May Not
    Achieve the Intended Effect or Could Adversely Affect
    MetLife s Competitive Position. 

Industry
    Trends Could Adversely Affect the Profitability of Our
    Businesses   

Our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of
    trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition
    with respect to product features, price, distribution
    capability, customer service and information technology. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Industry
    Trends.  The impact on our business and on the life
    insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability
    of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our
    business plans, financial condition and results of operations
    may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways.
    In addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state
    regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators
    may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving
    standards. Furthermore, regulators have undertaken market and
    sales practices reviews of several markets or products,
    including variable annuities and group products. The market
    environment may also lead to changes in regulation that may
    benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors.
    See    Competitive Factors May Adversely Affect
    Our Market Share and Profitability  and
     Business   Competition. 

Consolidation
    of Distributors of Insurance Products May Adversely Affect the
    Insurance Industry and the Profitability of Our
    Business   

The insurance industry distributes many of its individual
    products through other financial institutions such as banks and
    broker-dealers. An increase in bank and broker-dealer
    consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry s
    sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for
    access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses
    and impair our ability to market insurance products to our
    current customer base or to expand our customer base.
    Consolidation of distributors
     and/or  other
    industry changes may also increase the likelihood that
    distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing
    selling agreements to terms less favorable to us.

46

Table of Contents   

Our
    Investments are Reflected Within the Consolidated Financial
    Statements Utilizing Different Accounting Bases and Accordingly
    We May Have Recognized Differences, Which May Be Significant,
    Between Cost and Estimated Fair Value in our Consolidated
    Financial Statements   

Our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage
    loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests and other invested assets.
    The carrying value of such investments is as follows:

Fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as
     available-for-sale, 
    except for trading securities, and are reported at their
    estimated fair value. Unrealized investment gains and losses on
    these securities are recorded as a separate component of other
    comprehensive income (loss), net of policyholder related amounts
    and deferred income taxes.

Trading securities are recorded at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income.

Short-term investments include investments with remaining
    maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months,
    at the time of acquisition. Short-term investments that meet the
    definition of a security are stated at estimated fair value, and
    short-term investments that do not meet the definition of a
    security are stated at amortized cost, which approximates
    estimated fair value.

The carrying value of mortgage loans is stated at original cost
    net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of
    discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at
    estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis, and
    certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the
    lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a
    nonrecurring basis.

Policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances.

Real estate
     held-for-investment, 
    including related improvements, is stated at cost, less
    accumulated depreciation.

Real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership
    interests in which we have more than a minor equity interest or
    more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or
    partnership s operations, but where we do not have a
    controlling interest and are not the primary beneficiary, are
    carried using the equity method of accounting. We use the cost
    method of accounting for investments in real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests in which we
    have a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over
    the joint ventures or the partnership s operations.

Other invested assets consist principally of freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives are carried at estimated fair
    value with changes in estimated fair value reflected in income
    for both non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair
    value hedging relationships. Changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives in cash flow or in net investments in foreign
    operations hedging relationships are reflected as a separate
    component of other comprehensive income (loss). Leveraged leases
    are recorded net of non-recourse debt.

Investments not carried at estimated fair value in our
    consolidated financial statements   principally,
    mortgage loans
     held-for-investment, 
    policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures, other
    limited partnerships and leveraged leases   may have
    estimated fair values which are substantially higher or lower
    than the carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial
    statements. Each of these asset classes is regularly evaluated
    for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the
    respective asset class.

47

Table of Contents   

Our
    Valuation of Fixed Maturity, Equity and Trading Securities and
    Short-Term Investments May Include Methodologies, Estimations
    and Assumptions Which Are Subject to Differing Interpretations
    and Could Result in Changes to Investment Valuations that May
    Materially Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition   

Fixed maturity, equity, and trading securities and short-term
    investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the
    consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total
    cash and investments. We have categorized these securities into
    a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to
    the respective valuation technique. The fair value hierarchy
    gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets
    for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the
    lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). An asset
    or liability s classification within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to
    its valuation. The input levels are as follows:

Level 1 

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. We define active markets based on average
    trading volume for equity securities. The size of the bid/ask
    spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed
    maturity securities.

Level 2 

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data for substantially the full term of the assets or
    liabilities.

Level 3 

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or
    liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of fair value
    requires significant management judgment or estimation.

At December 31, 2009, 8.0%, 84.3% and 7.7% of these
    securities represented Level 1, Level 2 and
    Level 3, respectively. The Level 1 securities
    primarily consist of certain U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities; certain foreign
    government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common
    stock; certain trading securities; and certain short-term
    investments. The Level 2 assets include fixed maturity and
    equity securities priced principally through independent pricing
    services using observable inputs. These fixed maturity
    securities include most U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed securities, as well as the majority of
    U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS, commercial
    mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ), state and
    political subdivision securities, foreign government securities,
    and ABS. Equity securities classified as Level 2 primarily
    consist of non-redeemable preferred securities and certain
    equity securities where market quotes are available but are not
    considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing
    services. We review the valuation methodologies used by the
    independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure that
    any changes to valuation methodologies are justified.
    Level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced
    principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or
    market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are
    not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. Level 3 consists of
    less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading
    activity or where less price transparency exists around the
    inputs to the valuation methodologies including: U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities   including below
    investment grade private placements; RMBS; CMBS; and
    ABS   including all of those supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as Level 3
    securities consist principally of non-redeemable preferred stock
    and common stock of companies that are privately held or
    companies for which there has been very limited trading activity
    or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for the estimated fair values of these
    assets by hierarchy level.

Prices provided by independent pricing services and independent
    non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same
    security.

48

Table of Contents   

The determination of estimated fair values by management in the
    absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation
    methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable;
    and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the
    circumstances. The fair value estimates are made at a specific
    point in time, based on available market information and
    judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of
    the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the
    credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. Factors
    considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate,
    maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund
    requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and
    quoted market prices of comparable securities. The use of
    different methodologies and assumptions may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

During periods of market disruption including periods of
    significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening
    credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value
    certain of our securities, for example
     sub-prime 
    mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the
    underlying loans are Alt-A and CMBS, if trading becomes less
    frequent
     and/or 
    market data becomes less observable. In times of financial
    market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active
    markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. In
    such cases, more securities may fall to Level 3 and thus
    require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such,
    valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less
    observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation
    methods which are more sophisticated or require greater
    estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may
    be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may
    be ultimately sold. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented
    credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the
    valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated
    financial statements and the
     period-to-period 
    changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly.
    Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial condition.

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well, We May Be Required to Recognize
    an Impairment of Our Goodwill or Other Long-Lived Assets or to
    Establish a Valuation Allowance Against the Deferred Income Tax
    Asset, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations or
    Financial Condition   

Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire
    subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value
    of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill
    at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is
    performed based upon estimates of the estimated fair value of
    the  reporting unit  to which the goodwill relates.
    The reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one
    level below that operating segment if discrete financial
    information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at
    that level. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is
    impacted by the performance of the business. The performance of
    our businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market
    declines. If it is determined that the goodwill has been
    impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the
    impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. Such
    writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations or financial position. See
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates  
    Goodwill. 

Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also
    require impairment testing to determine whether changes in
    circumstances indicate that MetLife will be unable to recover
    the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations
    of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the
    estimated fair value of those assets. Such writedowns could have
    a material adverse effect on our results of operations or
    financial position.

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities.
    Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to
    determine if they are realizable. Factors in management s
    determination include the performance of the business including
    the ability to generate future taxable income. If based on
    available information, it is more likely than not that the
    deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation
    allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net
    income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations or financial position.

Further or continued deterioration of financial market
    conditions could result in a decrease in the expected future
    earnings of our reporting units, which could lead to an
    impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with them
    in future periods. Such deterioration could also result in the
    impairment of long-lived assets and the establishment of a
    valuation allowance on our deferred income tax assets.

49

Table of Contents   

If Our
    Business Does Not Perform Well or if Actual Experience Versus
    Estimates Used in Valuing and Amortizing DAC and VOBA Vary
    Significantly, We May Be Required to Accelerate the Amortization
    and/or Impair the DAC and VOBA Which Could Adversely Affect Our
    Results of Operations or Financial Condition   

We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and
    renewal business. Those costs that vary with and are primarily
    related to the production of new and renewal business are
    deferred and referred to as DAC. The recovery of DAC is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    The amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally
    on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to
    policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest
    crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to
    administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance
    counterparties and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, we anticipate that investment
    returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of
    such costs. The aforementioned factors enter into
    management s estimates of gross profits or margins, which
    generally are used to amortize such costs. If the estimates of
    gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization
    of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual
    experience is known and would result in a charge to income.
    Significant or sustained equity market declines could result in
    an acceleration of amortization of the DAC related to variable
    annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a
    charge to income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse
    effect on our results of operations or financial condition.

VOBA reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in
    a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion
    of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the
    right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and
    annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. VOBA is
    based on actuarially determined projections. Actual experience
    may vary from the projections. Revisions to estimates result in
    changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which
    the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a
    charge to income. Also, as VOBA is amortized similarly to DAC,
    an acceleration of the amortization of VOBA would occur if the
    estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated.
    Accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated
    in the period in which the actual experience is known and would
    result in a charge to net income. Significant or sustained
    equity market declines could result in an acceleration of
    amortization of the VOBA related to variable annuity and
    variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to
    income. Such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations or financial condition.

See   Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates   Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business Acquired 
    for further consideration of DAC and VOBA .

Changes
    in Accounting Standards Issued by the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board or Other Standard-Setting Bodies May Adversely
    Affect Our Financial Statements   

Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP,
    which is periodically revised
     and/or 
    expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to
    adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized
    authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting
    Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting
    standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets
    or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to
    financial instruments, structures or transactions, as well as to
    issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of
    accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet
    implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on
     Form 10-K 
    and
     Form 10-Q. 
    An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such
    proposals are subject to change through the exposure process
    and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot
    be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting
    standards we are required to adopt could change the current
    accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial
    statements and that such changes could have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

50

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in Our Discount Rate, Expected Rate of Return and Expected
    Compensation Increase Assumptions for Our Pension and Other
    Postretirement Benefit Plans May Result in Increased Expenses
    and Reduce Our Profitability   

We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan
    costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience.
    These assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount
    rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected
    increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation.
    Changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses
    and reduce our profitability. See Note 17 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on how changes
    in these assumptions would affect plan costs.

Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Variable Annuity Guarantee Benefits that
    Protect Policyholders Against Significant Downturns in Equity
    Markets May Increase the Volatility of Our Results Related to
    the Inclusion of an Own Credit Adjustment in the Estimated Fair
    Value of the Liability for These Guaranteed
    Benefits   

In determining the valuation of certain variable annuity
    guarantee benefit liabilities that are carried at estimated fair
    value, we must consider our own credit standing, which is not
    hedged. A decrease in our own credit spread could cause the
    value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction
    to net income. An increase in our own credit spread could cause
    the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an
    increase to net income. Because this credit adjustment is
    determined, at least in part, by taking into consideration
    publicly available information relating to our publicly-traded
    debt, the overall condition of fixed income markets may impact
    this adjustment. The credit premium implied in our
    publicly-traded debt, instruments may not always necessarily
    reflect our actual credit rating or our claims paying ability.
    Recently, the fixed income markets have experienced a period of
    extreme volatility which has impacted market liquidity and
    credit spreads. An increase in credit default swap spreads has
    at times been even more pronounced than in the fixed income cash
    markets. In a broad based market downturn, an increase in our
    own credit spread could result in net income being relatively
    flat when a deterioration in other market inputs required for
    the estimate of fair value would otherwise result in a
    significant reduction in net income. The inclusion of our own
    credit standing in this case has the effect of muting the actual
    net income losses recognized. In subsequent periods, if our
    credit spreads improve relative to the overall market, we could
    have a reduction of net income in an overall improving market.

Guarantees
    Within Certain of Our Products that Protect Policyholders
    Against Significant Downturns in Equity Markets May Decrease Our
    Earnings, Increase the Volatility of Our Results if Hedging or
    Risk Management Strategies Prove Ineffective, Result in Higher
    Hedging Costs and Expose Us to Increased Counterparty
    Risk   

Certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed
    benefits. These include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed
    withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed
    minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income
    benefits. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in
    equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest
    rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future
    policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities
    associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net
    income. We use reinsurance in combination with derivative
    instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the
    volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and
    while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the
    risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the
    guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative
    counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. In addition, we
    are subject to the risk that hedging and other management
    procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder
    behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events,
    produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, may
    have a material adverse effect on net income, financial
    condition or liquidity. We are also subject to the risk that the
    cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases,
    resulting in a reduction to net income.

51

Table of Contents   

We May
    Need to Fund Deficiencies in Our Closed Block; Assets
    Allocated to the Closed Block Benefit Only the Holders of Closed
    Block Policies   

MLIC s plan of reorganization, as amended (the
     Plan ), required that we establish and operate an
    accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that
    the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own
    certain individual insurance policies of MLIC are met. See
    Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements. We allocated assets to the closed block in an amount
    that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated
    revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are
    reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and
    liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not
    limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain
    expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the
    policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the
    experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate
    adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. We cannot
    provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows
    generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue
    from the policies included in the closed block will be
    sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these
    policies. If they are not sufficient, we must fund the
    shortfall. Even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for
    competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments
    with our general account funds.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of those
    policies. In addition, to the extent that these amounts are
    greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block
    was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies
    included in the closed block may be greater than they would be
    in the absence of a closed block. Any excess earnings will be
    available for distribution over time only to closed block
    policyholders.

Litigation
    and Regulatory Investigations Are Increasingly Common in Our
    Businesses and May Result in Significant Financial Losses and
    Harm to Our Reputation   

We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory
    investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating
    our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our
    pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings
    specific to us and others generally applicable to business
    practices in the industries in which we operate. In connection
    with our insurance operations, plaintiffs  lawyers may
    bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits
    alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or
    underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product
    design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits
    and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers.
    Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may
    seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and
    treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any
    probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for
    substantial periods of time. See Note 16 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with
    any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties can include how
    fact finders will view individually and in their totality
    documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of
    witnesses  testimony, and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information
    with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in
    our consolidated financial statements. The review includes
    senior legal and financial personnel. Unless stated elsewhere
    herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when
    it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of
    the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of matters noted in Note 16 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is possible
    that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make
    other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could
    not be estimated at December 31, 2009.

52

Table of Contents   

MLIC and its affiliates are currently defendants in numerous
    lawsuits including class actions and individual suits, alleging
    improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance
    policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products.

In addition, MLIC is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits
    seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries
    allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. These lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and have alleged that MLIC learned or should have
    learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among
    other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those
    health risks. Additional litigation relating to these matters
    may be commenced in the future. The ability of MLIC to estimate
    its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable
    uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be
    dynamic and subject to change. The availability of reliable data
    is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the
    numerous variables that can affect liability estimates,
    including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve
    claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and
    future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a
    particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the
    jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of
    tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow
    plaintiffs to pursue claims against MLIC when exposure took
    place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known,
    and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their
    amounts. The number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the
    aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may incur, and the
    total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain
    and may vary significantly from year to year. Accordingly, it is
    reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims
    may be materially greater than the liability recorded by us in
    our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to
    income may be necessary. The potential future charges could be
    material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which
    they are recorded.

We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as
    information requests, subpoenas and books and record
    examinations, from state and federal regulators and other
    authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant
    regulatory action against us could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the
    litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer
    significant reputational harm, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations, including our ability to attract new customers,
    retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees.
    Regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the
    price of stocks of companies in our industry.

We cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation,
    unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and
    other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition or results of
    operations. It is also possible that related or unrelated
    claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion,
    investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future,
    and we could become subject to further investigations and have
    lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In
    addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting
    investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions
    and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.

Proposals
    to Regulate Compensation, if Implemented, Could Hinder or
    Prevent Us From Attracting and Retaining Management and Other
    Employees with the Talent and Experience to Manage and Conduct
    Our Business Effectively   

Congress is considering the possibility of regulating the
    compensation that financial institutions may provide to their
    executive officers and other employees. In addition, the Federal
    Reserve Board and the FDIC have proposed guidelines on incentive
    compensation that, if adopted, may apply to or impact MetLife as
    a bank holding company. These restrictions could hinder or
    prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other
    employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct
    our business effectively. They could also limit our tax
    deductions for certain compensation paid to executive employees
    in excess of specified amounts. We may also be subject to
    requirements and restrictions on our business if we participate
    in some of the programs established in whole or in part under
    EESA.

53

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in U.S. Federal and State Securities Laws and Regulations May
    Affect Our Operations and Our Profitability   

Federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to
    insurance products that are also  securities, 
    including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance
    policies. As a result, some of MetLife, Inc. s subsidiaries
    and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance
    contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under
    these securities laws. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity
    contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate
    accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment
    companies under the Investment Company Act. Each registered
    separate account is generally divided into
     sub-accounts, 
    each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is
    itself a registered investment company under the Investment
    Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and
    variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts
    are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act. Other
    subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under
    the Exchange Act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation
    by FINRA. Further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as
    investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment Advisers
    Act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in
    various states, as applicable.

Federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily
    intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to
    protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect
    investment advisory or brokerage clients. These laws and
    regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking
    and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict
    the conduct of business for failure to comply with the
    securities laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or
    regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have
    a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations. In particular, changes in the regulations
    governing the registration and distribution of variable
    insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards
    for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life
    insurance policies, or changes in the standard of care which
    sales representatives owe to their customers with respect to the
    sale of variable insurance products, could have such a material
    adverse effect.

Changes
    in Tax Laws, Tax Regulations, or Interpretations of Such Laws or
    Regulations Could Increase Our Corporate Taxes; Changes in Tax
    Laws Could Make Some of Our Products Less Attractive to
    Consumers   

Changes in tax laws, Treasury and other regulations promulgated
    thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could
    increase our corporate taxes. The Obama Administration has
    proposed corporate tax changes. Changes in corporate tax rates
    could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax
    liabilities. Furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could
    be impacted by future earnings levels.

Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less
    attractive to consumers. A shift away from life insurance and
    annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce
    our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets
    upon which we earn investment income. The Obama Administration
    has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and
    rules applicable to certain policies.

We cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting
    corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the
    specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at
    all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition and results of operations.

We May
    be Unable to Attract and Retain Sales Representatives for Our
    Products   

We must attract and retain productive sales representatives to
    sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. Strong
    competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with
    demonstrated ability. In addition, there is competition for
    representatives with other types of financial services firms,
    such as independent broker-dealers. We compete with other
    insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our
    financial position, support services and compensation and
    product features. We continue to undertake several initiatives
    to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the
    efficiency and production of our existing sales force. We cannot
    provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in
    attracting and retaining new agents. Sales of individual
    insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of
    operations and financial condition could be

54

Table of Contents   

materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in
    attracting and retaining agents. See  Business  
    Competition. 

MetLife,
    Inc. s Board of Directors May Control the Outcome of
    Stockholder Votes on Many Matters Due to the Voting Provisions
    of the MetLife Policyholder Trust   

Under the Plan, we established the MetLife Policyholder Trust
    (the  Trust ) to hold the shares of MetLife, Inc.
    common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving
    cash or policy credits under the plan. At February 22,
    2010, 231,759,896 shares, or 28.3%, of the outstanding
    shares of MetLife, Inc. common stock, are held in the Trust.
    Because of the number of shares held in the Trust and the voting
    provisions of the Trust, the Trust may affect the outcome of
    matters brought to a stockholder vote.

Except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions
    described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of
    common stock held in the Trust in accordance with the
    recommendations given by MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such
    recommendations, as directed by the board. As a result of the
    voting provisions of the Trust, the Board of Directors may be
    able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of
    stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so
    long as the Trust holds a substantial number of shares of common
    stock.

If the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified
    in the Trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the
    Trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the Trust in
    proportion to the instructions it receives. These actions
    include:

an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has
    properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a
    nominee or nominees of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    or a vote on a stockholder s proposal to oppose a board
    nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a
    vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders,
    subject to certain conditions;

a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or
    substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or
    dissolution, of MetLife, Inc., in each case requiring a vote of
    stockholders under applicable Delaware law;

any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion
    of shares of common stock held by the Trust for cash, securities
    or other property; and

any proposal requiring MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors
    to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan,
    other than a proposal with respect to which we have received
    advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that
    the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action
    under Delaware law.

If a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions,
    the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by
    the Trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which
    will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually
    given by Trust beneficiaries.

State
    Laws, Federal Laws, Our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws
    and Our Stockholder Rights Plan May Delay, Deter or Prevent
    Takeovers and Business Combinations that Stockholders Might
    Consider in Their Best Interests   

State laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may
    delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders
    might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may
    prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium
    over the market price of MetLife, Inc. s common stock
    offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence
    of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may
    adversely affect the prevailing market price of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging
    takeover attempts in the future.

Any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would
    face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or
    prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of MetLife, Inc.
    might consider in their best interests. First, the insurance
    laws and regulations of the various states in which MetLife,
    Inc. s insurance subsidiaries are

55

Table of Contents   

organized may delay or impede a business combination involving
    us. State insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring
    control of an insurance company without the prior approval of
    the domestic insurance regulator. Under most states 
    statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance
    company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the
    voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. We
    are also subject to banking regulations, and may in the future
    become subject to additional regulations. The Obama
    Administration and Congress have made various proposals that
    could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions
    by systemically significant firms
     and/or  bank
    holding companies. In addition, the Investment Company Act would
    require approval by the contract owners of our variable
    contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any
    affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our
    variable contracts. Finally, FINRA approval would be necessary
    for a change of control of any FINRA registered broker-dealer
    that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of MetLife, Inc.

In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General
    Corporation Law may affect the ability of an  interested
    stockholder  to engage in certain business combinations,
    including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional
    shares, for a period of three years following the time that the
    stockholder becomes an  interested stockholder.  An
     interested stockholder  is defined to include persons
    owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding
    voting stock of a corporation.

MetLife, Inc. s certificate of incorporation and by-laws
    also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a
    takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best
    interests. These provisions may adversely affect prevailing
    market prices for MetLife, Inc. s common stock and include:
    classification of MetLife, Inc. s Board of Directors into
    three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings
    by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of
    candidates to the Board of Directors and stockholder proposals
    to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority
    voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of
    the certificate of incorporation and by-laws.

The stockholder rights plan, which was adopted by MetLife,
    Inc. s Board of Directors in September 1999, might also
    have anti-takeover effects. The provisions of the rights plan
    might render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less
    likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover, even though
    such takeover may offer MetLife, Inc. s stockholders the
    opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing
    market price and may be favored by a majority of MetLife,
    Inc. s stockholders. The rights plan is scheduled to expire
    at the close of business on April 4, 2010, and the Board of
    Directors does not currently intend to renew it.

The
    Continued Threat of Terrorism and Ongoing Military Actions May
    Adversely Affect the Level of Claim Losses We Incur and the
    Value of Our Investment Portfolio   

The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States
    and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened
    security measures in response to these types of threats may
    cause significant volatility in global financial markets and
    result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions
    to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in
    our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines
    in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity
    caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We cannot predict
    whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain
    investments may suffer losses as a result of financial,
    commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions
    might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or
    principal on their securities or mortgage loans. The continued
    threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance
    prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us
    to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were
    able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. Terrorist actions
    also could disrupt our operations centers in the United States
    or abroad. In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions
    could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than
    anticipated. See    Difficult Conditions in the
    Global Capital Markets and the Economy Generally May Materially
    Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations and
    These Conditions May Not Improve in the Near Future. 

56

Table of Contents   

The
    Occurrence of Events Unanticipated In Our Disaster Recovery
    Systems and Management Continuity Planning Could Impair Our
    Ability to Conduct Business Effectively   

In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an
    epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus,
    a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our
    disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact
    on our ability to conduct business and on our results of
    operations and financial position, particularly if those
    problems affect our computer-based data processing,
    transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable
    data. We depend heavily upon computer systems to provide
    reliable service. Despite our implementation of a variety of
    security measures, our computer systems could be subject to
    physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from
    unauthorized tampering. In addition, in the event that a
    significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event
    of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could
    be severely compromised. These interruptions also may interfere
    with our suppliers  ability to provide goods and services
    and our employees  ability to perform their job
    responsibilities.

Our
    Associates May Take Excessive Risks Which Could Negatively
    Affect Our Financial Condition and Business   

As an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid
    to accept certain risks. The associates who conduct our
    business, including executive officers and other members of
    management, sales managers, investment professionals, product
    managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by
    making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk.
    These include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines
    and standards, product design and pricing, determining what
    assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which
    business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. Although
    we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our
    compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our
    associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may
    take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation
    programs and practices. Similarly, although we employ controls
    and procedures designed to monitor associates  business
    decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can
    be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be
    effective. If our associates take excessive risks, the impact of
    those risks could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or business operations.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

MetLife has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding
    its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.

Item 2.      

Properties   

In 2006, we signed a lease for 410,000 rentable square feet
    on 12 floors in an office building in Manhattan, New York. The
    term of that lease commenced during 2008 and continues for
    21 years. In August 2009, we subleased 32,000 rentable
    square feet of that space to a subtenant, which has met our
    standards of review with respect to creditworthiness, and we
    currently have approximately 68,000 rentable square feet of
    the 410,000 rentable square feet available for sublease. We
    moved certain operations from our Long Island City, New York
    facility, to the Manhattan space in late 2008, but continue to
    maintain an on-going presence in Long Island City. Our lease in
    Long Island City covers 686,000 rentable square feet, under
    a long-term lease arrangement. In connection with the move of
    certain operations to Manhattan, in late 2008, we subleased
    80,000 rentable square feet to two subtenants, each of
    which has met our standards of review with respect to
    creditworthiness. Additionally, we currently have
    180,000 rentable square feet available for sublease in our
    Long Island City location. As a result of this movement of
    operations, and current market conditions, the Company incurred
    a lease impairment charge of $52 million and
    $38 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

In connection with the 2005 sale of the 200 Park Avenue
    property, we have retained rights to existing signage and are
    leasing space for associates in the property for 20 years
    with optional renewal periods through 2205.

We continue to own 15 other buildings in the United States that
    we use in the operation of our business. These buildings contain
    4.2 million rentable square feet and are located in the
    following states: Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Missouri, New
    Jersey, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island.
    Our computer center in

57

Table of Contents   

Rensselaer, New York is not owned in fee but rather is occupied
    pursuant to a long-term ground lease. We lease space in 755
    other locations throughout the United States, and these leased
    facilities consist of 8.8 million rentable square feet.
    Approximately 53% of these leases are occupied as sales offices
    for the U.S. Business Operations segment. The balance of
    space is utilized for MetLife Bank and other corporate functions
    supporting business activities. We also own 7 properties outside
    the United States, comprising 247,000 rentable square feet
    including a 192,000 square foot condominium unit in Mexico
    that we use in the operation of our business. We lease
    3.3 million rentable square feet in various locations
    outside the United States. We believe that these properties are
    suitable and adequate for our current and anticipated business
    operations.

We arrange for property and casualty coverage on our properties,
    taking into consideration our risk exposures and the cost and
    availability of commercial coverages, including deductible loss
    levels. In connection with the renewal of those coverages, we
    have arranged $700 million of property insurance, including
    coverage for terrorism, on our real estate portfolio through
    May 15, 2010, its renewal date.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Item 4.      

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the
    fourth quarter of 2009.

58

Table of Contents   

Part II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

Issuer
    Common Equity   

MetLife, Inc. s common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
    began trading on the NYSE under the symbol  MET  on
    April 5, 2000.

The following table presents high and low closing prices for the
    common stock on the NYSE for the periods indicated:

At February 22, 2010, there were 89,069 stockholders of
    record of common stock.

The table below presents dividend declaration, record and
    payment dates, as well as per share and aggregate dividend
    amounts, for the common stock:

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as our current earnings, expected
    medium-term and long-term earnings, financial condition,
    regulatory capital position, and applicable governmental
    regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment of dividends
    and other distributions to the Company by its insurance
    subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. See
     Business   Regulation   Insurance
    Regulation,   Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Capital
    Resources   The Holding Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Dividends from
    Subsidiaries  and Note 18 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

59

Table of Contents   

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities   

Purchases of common stock made by or on behalf of the Company or
    its affiliates during the quarter ended December 31, 2009
    are set forth below:

(1)  

On October 31, 2009, separate account affiliates of the
    Company purchased 15,000 shares of common stock on the open
    market in nondiscretionary transactions to rebalance index
    funds. Except as disclosed above, there were no shares of common
    stock which were repurchased by the Company. 

(2)  

At December 31, 2009, the Company had $1,261 million
    remaining under its common stock repurchase program
    authorizations. In April 2008, the Company s Board of
    Directors authorized an additional $1 billion common stock
    repurchase program, which will begin after the completion of the
    January 2008 $1 billion common stock repurchase program, of
    which $261 million remained outstanding at
    December 31, 2009. Under these authorizations, the Company
    may purchase its common stock from the MetLife Policyholder
    Trust, in the open market (including pursuant to the terms of a
    pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated transactions. 

See also  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Holding
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Uses   Share
    Repurchases  for further information relating to common
    stock repurchases.

60

Table of Contents   

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

The following selected financial data has been derived from the
    Company s audited consolidated financial statements. The
    statement of operations data for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and the balance sheet
    data at December 31, 2009 and 2008 have been derived from
    the Company s audited financial statements included
    elsewhere herein. The statement of operations data for the years
    ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the balance sheet
    data at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been derived
    from the Company s audited financial statements not
    included herein. The selected financial data set forth below
    should be read in conjunction with  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and the consolidated financial statements and
    related notes included elsewhere herein.

61

Table of Contents   

62

Table of Contents   

(1)  

On July 1, 2005, the Company completed the acquisition of
    The Travelers Insurance Company, excluding certain assets, most
    significantly, Primerica, from Citigroup Inc.
    ( Citigroup ), and substantially all of
    Citigroup s international insurance businesses. The 2005
    selected financial data includes total revenues and total
    expenses of $966 million and $577 million,
    respectively, from the date of the acquisition. 

(2)  

Policyholder liabilities include future policy benefits,
    policyholder account balances, other policyholder funds,
    policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder dividend
    obligation. 

(3)  

Return on common equity is defined as net income (loss)
    available to MetLife, Inc. s common shareholders divided by
    average common stockholders  equity. 

(4)  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, shares related to the
    exercise or issuance of stock-based awards have been excluded
    from the calculation of diluted earnings per common share as
    these shares are anti-dilutive. 

Item
    7.   Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

For purposes of this discussion,  MetLife  or the
     Company  refers to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware
    corporation incorporated in 1999 (the  Holding
    Company ), and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
    Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). Following this
    summary is a discussion addressing the consolidated results of
    operations and financial condition of the Company for the
    periods indicated. This discussion should be read in conjunction
    with  Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, 
     Risk Factors,   Selected Financial Data 
    and the Company s consolidated financial statements
    included elsewhere herein.

This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations may contain or incorporate
    by reference information that includes or is based upon
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements give expectations or forecasts of future events.
    These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not
    relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words
    such as  anticipate,   estimate, 
     expect,   project,   intend, 
     plan,   believe  and other words and terms
    of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future
    operating or financial performance. In particular, these include
    statements relating to future actions, prospective services or
    products, future performance

63

Table of Contents   

or results of current and anticipated services or products,
    sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as
    legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
    Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong.
    Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or
    implied in the forward-looking statements. See  Note
    Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. 

The following discussion includes references to our performance
    measures operating earnings and operating earnings available to
    common shareholders, that are not based on generally accepted
    accounting principles in the United States of America
    ( GAAP ). Operating earnings is the measure of segment
    profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance and
    allocate resources and, consistent with GAAP accounting guidance
    for segment reporting, is our measure of segment performance.
    Operating earnings is also a measure by which our senior
    management s and many other employees  performance is
    evaluated for the purposes of determining their compensation
    under applicable compensation plans. Operating earnings is
    defined as operating revenues less operating expenses, net of
    income tax. Operating earnings available to common shareholders,
    which is used to evaluate the performance of Banking,
    Corporate   Other, as well as MetLife is defined as
    operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.

Operating revenues is defined as GAAP revenues (i) less net
    investment gains (losses), (ii) less amortization of
    unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses),
    (iii) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on
    derivative instruments that are hedges of investments but do not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (iv) plus income
    from discontinued real estate operations, and (v) plus, for
    operating joint ventures reported under the equity method of
    accounting, the aforementioned adjustments and those identified
    in the definition of operating expenses, net of income tax, if
    applicable to these joint ventures.

Operating expenses is defined as GAAP expenses (i) less
    changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to
    asset value fluctuations, (ii) less costs related to
    business combinations (since January 1, 2009) and
    noncontrolling interests, (iii) less amortization of DAC
    and VOBA and changes in the policyholder dividend obligation
    related to net investment gains (losses), and (iv) plus
    scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments
    that are hedges of policyholder account balances but do not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment.

We believe the presentation of operating earnings and operating
    earnings available to common shareholders as we measure it for
    management purposes enhances the understanding of our
    performance by highlighting the results of operations and the
    underlying profitability drivers of our businesses. Operating
    earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders
    should not be viewed as substitutes for GAAP income (loss) from
    continuing operations, net of income tax. Reconciliations of
    operating earnings and operating earnings available to common
    shareholders to GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations,
    net of income tax, the most directly comparable GAAP measure,
    are included in    Consolidated Results of
    Operations. 

Executive
    Summary  

MetLife is a leading provider of insurance, employee benefits
    and financial services with operations throughout the United
    States and the Latin America, Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle
    East and India ( EMEI ) regions. Through its
    subsidiaries, MetLife offers life insurance, annuities, auto and
    homeowners insurance, retail banking and other financial
    services to individuals, as well as group insurance and
    retirement   savings products and services to
    corporations and other institutions. MetLife is organized into
    five operating segments: Insurance Products, Retirement
    Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and Auto   Home
    (collectively,  U.S. Business ) and
    International. In addition, the Company reports certain of its
    results of operations in Banking, Corporate   Other,
    which is comprised of MetLife Bank and other business activities.

The U.S. and global financial markets experienced
    extraordinary dislocations during late 2008 through early 2009,
    with the U.S. economy entering a recession in January 2008.
    The economic crisis and the resulting recession have had an
    adverse effect on our financial results, as well as the
    financial services industry. Most economists believe the
    recession ended in the third quarter of 2009 when positive
    growth returned and now expect positive growth to continue
    through 2010. We have experienced an increase in market share
    and sales in some of our businesses from a flight to quality in
    the industry. In addition, the recovering global financial
    markets contributed to the improvement in net investment income
    and sales in most of our international regions. These positive
    impacts were outweighed by the adverse effects on our net
    investment income and the demand for certain of our products.

64

Table of Contents   

For a discussion of how the financial and economic environment
    has impacted our 2009 results, capital and liquidity, and
    expected 2010 performance, see    Results of
    Operations,     Liquidity and Capital
    Resources  and    Consolidated Company
    Outlook. 

Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are net of income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    decreased $5.8 billion to a loss of $2.3 billion from
    income of $3.5 billion in the comparable 2008 period. The
    year over year change is predominantly due to a
    $5.2 billion unfavorable change in net investment gains
    (losses) to losses of $4.6 billion, net of related
    adjustments, in 2009 from gains of $644 million, net of
    related adjustments, in 2008. In addition, operating earnings
    available to common shareholders decreased by $329 million
    to $2.4 billion in 2009 from $2.7 billion in 2008.

The unfavorable change in net investment gains (losses) of
    $5.2 billion, net of related adjustments, was primarily
    driven by losses on freestanding derivatives, partially offset
    by gains on embedded derivatives, primarily associated with
    variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees, and lower losses on
    fixed maturity securities.

The positive impacts of business growth and favorable mortality
    in several of our businesses were more than offset by a decline
    in net investment income, resulting in a decrease in operating
    earnings of $329 million. The decrease in net investment
    income caused significant declines in the operating earnings of
    many of our businesses, especially the interest spread
    businesses. Also contributing to the decline in operating
    earnings was an increase in net guaranteed annuity benefit costs
    and a charge related to our closed block of business, a specific
    group of participating life policies that were segregated in
    connection with the demutualization of MLIC. The favorable
    impact of Operational Excellence, our enterprise-wide cost
    reduction and revenue enhancement initiative, was more than
    offset by higher pension and postretirement benefit costs,
    driving the increase in other expenses. The declines in
    operating earnings were partially offset by a change in
    amortization related to DAC, deferred sales inducement
    ( DSI ), and unearned revenue.

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007  

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are net of income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    decreased $624 million to $3.5 billion from
    $4.1 billion in the comparable 2007 period. The year over
    year change was predominantly due to a $1.9 billion
    decrease in operating earnings available to common shareholders.
    Partially offsetting this decline was a $1.1 billion
    favorable change in net investment gains (losses) to gains of
    $644 million, net of related adjustments, in 2008 from
    losses of $438 million, net of related adjustments, in 2007.

Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, there was unprecedented
    disruption and dislocation in the global financial markets that
    caused extreme volatility in the equity, credit and real estate
    markets. This adversely impacted both net investment income as
    yields decreased and net investment gains (losses) as there was
    an increase in impairments and credit-related losses.

65

Table of Contents   

We responded to the extraordinary market conditions by
    increasing levels of cash, cash equivalents, short-term
    investments and high quality, lower yielding fixed maturity
    securities particularly in two operating segments: Corporate
    Benefit Funding and Retirement Products, as well as in Banking,
    Corporate   Other. We decreased fixed maturity
    security holdings to increase our liquidity position.

The favorable change of $1.1 billion in net investment
    gains (losses), net of related adjustments, was driven by
    increased gains on freestanding derivatives, partially offset by
    increased losses on embedded derivatives primarily associated
    with variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees, and increased
    impairment losses on fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities.

The unprecedented disruption and dislocation in the global
    financial markets resulted in decreased yields on our investment
    portfolio and, in response to the market conditions, we
    increased our asset allocation to lower yielding, more liquid
    investments, both of which contributed to a decline in net
    investment income and, consequently, operating earnings
    available to common shareholders. The market environment s
    negative impact on investment results was partially offset by
    growth in average invested assets calculated excluding
    unrealized gains and losses. In addition, the volatile market
    environment also resulted in declines in our separate account
    balances. Such declines required us to increase DAC
    amortization, negatively affecting operating earnings available
    to common shareholders. The declines in the separate account
    balances also resulted in lower policy fees and other revenues.
    Operating earnings available to common shareholders for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 were also lower as a result of
    higher catastrophe losses and unfavorable mortality in various
    products. Higher earnings from our dental business and from our
    businesses in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions
    partially offset the aforementioned items.

Consolidated
    Company Outlook   

In 2009, the general economic conditions of the marketplace,
    particularly in the early part of the year, continued to be
    volatile and negatively impacted the results of the Company. In
    2010, we expect meaningful earnings recovery for the Company,
    driven primarily by the following:

Continued growth in premiums, fees   other revenues

Higher fees earned on separate accounts, as the full impact of
    the recovery in the equity market is felt, thereby increasing
    the value of those separate accounts;

Increased sales in the pension closeout business, both in the
    United States and the United Kingdom, as the demand for these
    products rebounds from the lower levels seen in 2009;

Increases in our International segment, as a result of ongoing
    investments and improvements in the various distribution and
    service operations throughout the regions; and

Modest growth in Insurance products. Our growth continues to be
    impacted by the current higher levels of unemployment and it is
    possible that certain customers may further reduce or eliminate
    coverages in response to the financial pressures they are
    experiencing.

Offsetting these growth areas, MetLife Bank s premiums,
    fees   other revenues are expected to decline from the
    2009 level, which benefited from the large number of mortgage
    refinancings in that year.

Higher returns on the investment portfolio

Despite expectations that the real estate market will remain
    challenging in 2010, higher returns on the investment portfolio
    are expected across all segments. We believe returns on
    alternative investment classes will improve and expect to
    reinvest cash and U.S. Treasuries into higher yielding
    asset classes.

Improvement in net investment gains (losses)

Although difficult to predict, net investment gains (losses) on
    our invested asset portfolio are expected to show significant
    improvement as the financial markets stabilize across asset
    classes, returning to a more normalized level from the large
    losses encountered in 2009. More difficult to predict is the
    impact of

66

Table of Contents   

potential changes in fair value of derivatives instruments as
    even relatively small movements in market variables, including
    interest rates, equity levels and volatility, can have a large
    impact on derivatives fair values. Additionally, changes in
    MetLife s credit spread, may have a material impact on net
    investment gains (losses) as it is required to be included in
    the valuation of certain embedded derivatives.

Reduced volatility in guarantee-related liabilities

Certain annuity and life benefit guarantees are tied to market
    performance, which when markets are depressed, may require us to
    establish additional liabilities, even though these guarantees
    are significantly hedged. In line with the assumptions discussed
    above, we expect a significant reduction in the volatility of
    these items in 2010 compared to 2009.

Focus on disciplined underwriting

We do not expect any significant changes to the underlying
    trends that drive underwriting results and we anticipate solid
    results in 2010. While we did begin to see the negative impact
    of the economy on non-medical health experience in 2009, we
    expect to see improvement in our results in 2010 as the economy
    continues to improve. Pricing actions taken in 2009 in our
    dental business will help mitigate the impact of elevated claim
    utilization, experienced as a result of the challenging economic
    conditions and higher unemployment.

Focus on expense management

Our continued focus on expense control throughout the Company,
    as well the continuing impact of specific initiatives such as
    Operational Excellence (our enterprise-wide cost reduction and
    revenue enhancement initiative), should contribute to increased
    profitability. With continued improvement in the financial
    markets, we also expect that the Company s pension-related
    expenses will return to a more normal level in 2010.

Industry
    Trends  

The Company s segments continue to be influenced by a
    continuing unstable financial and economic environment that
    affects the industry.

Financial and Economic Environment.   Our
    results of operations are materially affected by conditions in
    the global capital markets and the economy, generally, both in
    the United States and elsewhere around the world. The global
    economy and markets are now recovering from a period of
    significant stress that began in the second half of 2007 and
    substantially increased through the first quarter of 2009. This
    disruption adversely affected the financial services industry,
    in particular. The U.S. economy entered a recession in
    January 2008 and most economists believe this recession ended in
    the third quarter of 2009 when positive growth returned. Most
    economists now expect positive growth to continue through 2010.

Throughout 2008 and continuing in 2009, Congress, the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Treasury and other
    agencies of the Federal government took a number of increasingly
    aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of
    interest rate reductions that began in the second half of
    2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial
    institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence
    in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the
    spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. How
    and to whom these governmental institutions distribute amounts
    available under the governmental programs could have the effect
    of supporting some aspects of the financial services industry
    more than others or provide advantages to some of our
    competitors. Governments in many of the foreign markets in which
    MetLife operates have also responded to address market
    imbalances and have taken meaningful steps intended to restore
    market confidence. As market conditions have stabilized, some of
    these programs have been terminated or allowed to expire. We
    cannot predict whether or when the U.S. or foreign
    governments will establish additional governmental programs or
    terminate or permit other programs to expire or the impact any
    additional measures, existing programs or termination or
    expiration of programs will have on the financial markets,
    whether on the levels of volatility currently being experienced,
    the levels of lending by financial institutions, the prices
    buyers are willing to pay for financial assets or otherwise. See
     Business   Regulation   Governmental
    Responses to Extraordinary Market Conditions. 

The economic crisis and the resulting recession have had and
    will continue to have an adverse effect on the financial results
    of companies in the financial services industry, including
    MetLife. The declining financial markets and economic conditions
    have negatively impacted our investment income, our net
    investment gains (losses), and

67

Table of Contents   

the demand for and the cost and profitability of certain of our
    products, including variable annuities and guarantee benefits.
    See     Results of Operations  and
       Liquidity and Capital Resources. 

Demographics.   In the coming decade, a key
    driver shaping the actions of the life insurance industry will
    be the rising income protection, wealth accumulation and needs
    of the retiring Baby Boomers. As a result of increasing
    longevity, retirees will need to accumulate sufficient savings
    to finance retirements that may span 30 or more years. Helping
    the Baby Boomers to accumulate assets for retirement and
    subsequently to convert these assets into retirement income
    represents an opportunity for the life insurance industry.

Life insurers are well positioned to address the Baby
    Boomers  rapidly increasing need for savings tools and for
    income protection. We believe that, among life insurers, those
    with strong brands, high financial strength ratings and broad
    distribution, are best positioned to capitalize on the
    opportunity to offer income protection products to Baby Boomers.

Moreover, the life insurance industry s products and the
    needs they are designed to address are complex. We believe that
    individuals approaching retirement age will need to seek
    information to plan for and manage their retirements and that,
    in the workplace, as employees take greater responsibility for
    their benefit options and retirement planning, they will need
    information about their possible individual needs. One of the
    challenges for the life insurance industry will be the delivery
    of this information in a cost effective manner.

Competitive Pressures.   The life insurance
    industry remains highly competitive. The product development and
    product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments,
    leading to more intense competition with respect to product
    features. Larger companies have the ability to invest in brand
    equity, product development, technology and risk management,
    which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth
    in the life insurance industry. In addition, several of the
    industry s products can be quite homogeneous and subject to
    intense price competition. Sufficient scale, financial strength
    and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for
    sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. Larger market
    participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional
    distribution capability and the information technology needed to
    offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly
    sophisticated industry client base. We believe that the
    turbulence in financial markets that began in the latter half of
    2008, its impact on the capital position of many competitors,
    and subsequent actions by regulators and rating agencies have
    highlighted financial strength as the most significant
    differentiator from the perspective of customers and certain
    distributors. In addition, the financial market turbulence and
    the economic recession have led many companies in our industry
    to re-examine the pricing and features of the products they
    offer and may lead to consolidation in the life insurance
    industry.

Regulatory Changes.   The life insurance
    industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and
    services also subject to federal regulation. As life insurers
    introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine
    capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for
    the life insurance industry. Regulations recently adopted or
    currently under review can potentially impact the statutory
    reserve and capital requirements of the industry. In addition,
    regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of
    several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities,
    variable annuities and group products. The regulation of the
    financial services industry has received renewed scrutiny as a
    result of the disruptions in the financial markets in 2008 and
    2009. Significant regulatory reforms have been proposed and
    these or other reforms could be implemented. We cannot predict
    whether any such reforms will be adopted, the form they will
    take or their effect upon us. We also cannot predict how the
    various government responses to the recent financial and
    economic difficulties will affect the financial services and
    insurance industries or the standing of particular companies,
    including our Company, within those industries. See  Risk
    Factors   Our Insurance and Banking Businesses Are
    Heavily Regulated, and Changes in Regulation May Reduce Our
    Profitability and Limit Our Growth  and  Risk
    Factors   Changes in U.S. Federal and State
    Securities Laws and Regulations May Affect Our Operations and
    Our Profitability. 

Pension Plans.   On August 17, 2006,
    President Bush signed the Pension Protection Act of 2006
    ( PPA ) into law. The PPA is a comprehensive reform of
    defined benefit and defined contribution plan rules. The
    provisions of the PPA may, over time, have a significant impact
    on demand for pension, retirement savings, and lifestyle
    protection products in both the institutional and retail
    markets. While the impact of the PPA is generally expected to be
    positive over time, these changes may have adverse short-term
    effects on our business as plan sponsors may react to these
    changes in a variety of ways as the new rules and related
    regulations begin to take effect. In response to the current
    financial and economic

68

Table of Contents   

environment, President Bush signed into the law the Worker,
    Retiree and Employer Recovery Act (the  Employer Recovery
    Act ) in December 2008. This Act is intended to, among
    other things, ease the transition of certain funding
    requirements of the PPA for defined benefit plans. In addition,
    legislation that would provide further relief for defined
    benefit plans is under consideration. The financial and economic
    environment and the enactment of the Employer Recovery Act, as
    well as additional funding relief provisions that may be enacted
    into law, may delay the timing or change the nature of qualified
    plan sponsor actions and, in turn, affect our business.

Summary
    of Critical Accounting Estimates  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial
    statements. The most critical estimates include those used in
    determining:

(i) 

the estimated fair value of investments in the absence of quoted
    market values;

(ii) 

investment impairments;

(iii) 

the recognition of income on certain investment entities and the
    application of the consolidation rules to certain investments;

(iv) 

the estimated fair value of and accounting for freestanding
    derivatives and the existence and estimated fair value of
    embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation;

(v) 

the capitalization and amortization of DAC and the establishment
    and amortization of VOBA;

(vi) 

the measurement of goodwill and related impairment, if any;

(vii) 

the liability for future policyholder benefits and the
    accounting for reinsurance contracts;

(viii) 

accounting for income taxes and the valuation of deferred tax
    assets;

(ix) 

accounting for employee benefit plans; and

(x) 

the liability for litigation and regulatory matters.

In applying the Company s accounting policies, we make
    subjective and complex judgments that frequently require
    estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of
    these policies, estimates and related judgments are common in
    the insurance and financial services industries; others are
    specific to the Company s businesses and operations. Actual
    results could differ from these estimates.

Fair
    Value   

The Company defines fair value as the price that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an
    exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
    asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants on the measurement date. In many cases, the exit
    price and the transaction (or entry) price will be the same at
    initial recognition. However, in certain cases, the transaction
    price may not represent fair value. The fair value of a
    liability is based on the amount that would be paid to transfer
    a liability to a third-party with the same credit standing. It
    requires that fair value be a market-based measurement in which
    the fair value is determined based on a hypothetical transaction
    at the measurement date, considered from the perspective of a
    market participant. When quoted prices are not used to determine
    fair value, the Company considers three broad valuation
    techniques: (i) the market approach, (ii) the income
    approach, and (iii) the cost approach. The Company
    determines the most appropriate valuation technique to use,
    given what is being measured and the availability of sufficient
    inputs. The Company prioritizes the inputs to fair valuation
    techniques and allows for the use of unobservable inputs to the
    extent that observable inputs are not available. The Company
    categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at estimated
    fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority
    of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. The fair
    value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in
    active markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or

69

Table of Contents   

liability s classification within the fair value hierarchy
    is based on the lowest level of input to its valuation. The
    input levels are as follows:

Level 1  

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on
    average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the
    bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for
    fixed maturity securities.

Level 2  

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other significant inputs that are
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities.

Level 3  

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.

Prior to January 1, 2009, the measurement and disclosures
    of fair value based on exit price excluded certain items such as
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially
    measured at estimated fair value in a business combination,
    reporting units measured at estimated fair value in the first
    step of a goodwill impairment test and indefinite-lived
    intangible assets measured at estimated fair value for
    impairment assessment.

Estimated
    Fair Value of Investments   

The Company s investments in fixed maturity and equity
    securities, investments in trading securities, certain
    short-term investments, most mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    and mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) are reported at
    their estimated fair value. In determining the estimated fair
    value of these investments, various methodologies, assumptions
    and inputs are utilized, as described further below.

When available, the estimated fair value of securities is based
    on quoted prices in active markets that are readily and
    regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most liquid of
    the Company s securities holdings and valuation of these
    securities does not involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include,
    but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the
    issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon
    rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity,
    estimated duration and management s assumptions regarding
    liquidity and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the
    estimated fair values are based on available market information
    and management s judgments about financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity.

70

Table of Contents   

Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on assumptions
    deemed appropriate given the circumstances and consistent with
    what other market participants would use when pricing such
    securities.

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined based on observable pricing of residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for
    securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert
    the securities prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market
    prices are not available. When observable pricing for similar
    loans or securities that are backed by similar loans are not
    available, the estimated fair values of residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgage loans have also been
    designated as
     held-for-sale 
    which are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated
    fair value less expected disposition costs determined on an
    individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is
    determined using independent broker quotations or, when the loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
    estimated using internal models.

MSRs, which are recorded in other invested assets, are measured
    at estimated fair value and are either acquired or are generated
    from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans where the
    servicing rights are retained by the Company. The estimated fair
    value of MSRs is principally determined through the use of
    internal discounted cash flow models which utilize various
    assumptions as to discount rates, loan-prepayments, and
    servicing costs. The use of different valuation assumptions and
    inputs, as well as assumptions relating to the collection of
    expected cash flows may have a material effect on the estimated
    fair values of MSRs.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by
    rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in
    asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities,
    or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends
    upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the
    use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
    certain securities.

Investment
    Impairments   

One of the significant estimates related to
     available-for-sale 
    securities is the evaluation of investments for impairments. As
    described more fully in Note 1 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, effective April 1, 2009,
    the Company adopted new
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments guidance that amends the methodology for determining
    for fixed maturity securities whether an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment exists, and for certain fixed maturity securities,
    changes how the amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    loss that is charged to earnings is determined. There was no
    change in the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment ( OTTI ) methodology for equity securities.
    The discussion presented below incorporates the new OTTI
    guidance adopted April 1, 2009.

The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on
    our
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed
    maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an
    analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three
    categories of securities: (i) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and
    (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had
    declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or
    more for six months or greater. An extended and severe
    unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not
    have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all
    scheduled interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or
    the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized
    cost based on the present value of the expected future cash
    flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity
    securities, greater weight and consideration are given by the
    Company to a decline in estimated fair value and the likelihood
    such estimated fair value decline will recover.

Additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the
    security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates
    about the operations of the

71

Table of Contents   

issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations used by
    the Company in the impairment evaluation process include, but
    are not limited to:

(i) 

the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair
    value has been below cost or amortized cost;

(ii) 

the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is
    experiencing significant financial difficulties;

(iii) 

the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or
     sub-sector; 

(iv) 

the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed
    geographic locations;

(v) 

the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer,
    series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type
    of loss or has exhausted natural resources;

(vi) 

with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the Company
    has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required
    to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in
    estimated fair value below cost or amortized cost;

(vii) 

with respect to equity securities, whether the Company s
    ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time
    sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount
    equal to or greater than cost;

(viii) 

unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed
    and asset-backed securities; and

(ix) 

other subjective factors, including concentrations and
    information obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

The cost of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for
    the credit loss component of OTTI in the period in which the
    determination is made. When an OTTI of a fixed maturity security
    has occurred, the amount of the OTTI recognized in earnings
    depends on whether the Company intends to sell the security or
    more likely than not will be required to sell the security
    before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If the fixed
    maturity security meets either of these two criteria, the OTTI
    recognized in earnings is equal to the entire difference between
    the security s amortized cost basis and its estimated fair
    value at the impairment measurement date. For
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments of fixed maturity securities that do not meet either
    of these two criteria, the net amount recognized in earnings is
    equal to the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed
    maturity security and the present value of projected future cash
    flows to be collected from this security. Any difference between
    the estimated fair value and the present value of the expected
    future cash flows of the security at the impairment measurement
    date is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss). For
    equity securities, the carrying value of the equity security is
    impaired to its estimated fair value, with a corresponding
    charge to earnings. The Company does not change the revised cost
    basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments on
    other invested asset classes is highly subjective and is based
    upon the Company s periodic evaluation and assessment of
    known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset
    class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as
    conditions change and new information becomes available.

Recognition
    of Income on Certain Investment Entities   

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities, certain structured investment
    transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market
    conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in
    amounts to be earned.

Application
    of the Consolidation Rules to Certain Investments   

The Company has invested in certain structured transactions that
    are variable interest entities ( VIEs ). These
    structured transactions include reinsurance trusts, asset-backed
    securitizations, hybrid securities, joint ventures, limited
    partnerships and limited liability companies. The Company is
    required to consolidate those VIEs for which it is deemed to be
    the primary beneficiary. The accounting rules for the
    determination of when an entity is a VIE and when to consolidate
    a VIE are complex. The determination of the VIE s primary
    beneficiary requires an evaluation

72

Table of Contents   

of the contractual rights and obligations associated with each
    party involved in the entity, an estimate of the entity s
    expected losses and expected residual returns and the allocation
    of such estimates to each party involved in the entity. The
    primary beneficiary is defined as the entity that will absorb a
    majority of a VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of
    a VIE s expected residual returns if no single entity
    absorbs a majority of expected losses, or both.

When assessing the expected losses to determine the primary
    beneficiary for structured investment products such as
    asset-backed securitizations and collateralized debt
    obligations, the Company uses historical default probabilities
    based on the credit rating of each issuer and other inputs
    including maturity dates, industry classifications and
    geographic location. Using computational algorithms, the
    analysis simulates default scenarios resulting in a range of
    expected losses and the probability associated with each
    occurrence. For other investment structures such as hybrid
    securities, joint ventures, limited partnerships and limited
    liability companies, the Company takes into consideration the
    design of the VIE and generally uses a qualitative approach to
    determine if it is the primary beneficiary. This approach
    includes an analysis of all contractual and implied rights and
    obligations held by all parties including profit and loss
    allocations, repayment or residual value guarantees, put and
    call options and other derivative instruments. If the primary
    beneficiary of a VIE can not be identified using this
    qualitative approach, the Company calculates the expected losses
    and expected residual returns of the VIE using a
    probability-weighted cash flow model. The use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of
    the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

The Company enters into freestanding derivative transactions
    including swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts to
    manage various risks relating to its ongoing business
    operations. To a lesser extent, the Company uses credit
    derivatives, such as credit default swaps, to synthetically
    replicate investment risks and returns which are not readily
    available in the cash market.

The estimated fair value of derivatives is determined through
    the use of quoted market prices for exchange-traded derivatives
    and financial forwards to sell certain to be announced
    securities or through the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.
    See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional details on significant inputs into the
     over-the-counter 
    derivative pricing models and credit risk adjustment.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting guidance continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under such accounting guidance. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment may result in a differing impact on the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company from that
    previously reported. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and
    measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are
    also subject to interpretations and estimations and different
    interpretations or estimates may have a material effect on the
    amount reported in net income.

Embedded
    Derivatives   

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefits. These include guaranteed minimum
    withdrawal benefits ( GMWB ), guaranteed minimum
    accumulation benefits ( GMAB ), and certain guaranteed
    minimum income benefits ( GMIB ). GMWB, GMAB and
    certain GMIB are embedded derivatives, which are measured at
    estimated fair value separately from the host variable annuity
    product, with changes in estimated fair value reported in net
    investment gains (losses).

73

Table of Contents   

The estimated fair values for these embedded derivatives are
    determined based on the present value of projected future
    benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The
    projections of future benefits and future fees require capital
    market and actuarial assumptions including expectations
    concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation
    methodology is used under which the cash flows from the
    guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios
    using observable risk free rates. Beginning in 2008, the
    valuation of these embedded derivatives includes an adjustment
    for the Company s own credit and risk margins for
    non-capital market inputs. The Company s own credit
    adjustment is determined taking into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt, as
    well as its claims paying ability. Risk margins are established
    to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which
    represent the additional compensation a market participant would
    require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such
    actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency,
    partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk
    margins requires the use of significant management judgment.

These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not
    limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market
    volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the
    Company s own credit standing; and variations in actuarial
    assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, and risk margins
    related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that
    could materially affect net income.

The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB
    and GMAB described in the preceding paragraphs. The value of the
    embedded derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a
    methodology consistent with that described previously for the
    guarantees directly written by the Company.

The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
    derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is
    determined using market standard swap valuation models and
    observable market inputs, including an adjustment for the
    Company s own credit that takes into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt, as
    well as its claims paying ability. Changes in equity and bond
    indices, interest rates and the Company s credit standing
    may result in significant fluctuations in estimated the fair
    value of these embedded derivatives that could materially affect
    net income.

The accounting for embedded derivatives is complex and
    interpretations of the primary accounting standards continue to
    evolve in practice. If interpretations change, there is a risk
    that features previously not bifurcated may require bifurcation
    and reporting at estimated fair value in the consolidated
    financial statements and respective changes in estimated fair
    value could materially affect net income.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired   

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    represents the present value of future profits embedded in
    acquired insurance annuity and investment   type
    contracts. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections,
    by each block of business, of future policy and contract
    charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account
    performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns
    and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business
    may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for
    reporting purposes.

Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements describes the Company s accounting policy
    relating to DAC and VOBA amortization for various types of
    contracts.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period which can result in significant fluctuations in
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. The Company s practice to
    determine the impact of gross profits resulting from returns on
    separate accounts assumes that long-term appreciation in equity
    markets is not changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is
    only changed when sustained interim deviations are expected. The
    Company monitors these changes and only changes the assumption
    when its long-term expectation changes. The effect of an
    increase/

74

Table of Contents   

(decrease) by 100 basis points in the assumed future rate
    of return is reasonably likely to result in a
    decrease/(increase) in the DAC and VOBA amortization of
    approximately $140 million with an offset to the
    Company s unearned revenue liability of approximately
    $20 million for this factor.

The Company also reviews periodically other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency, and expenses to administer business. We
    annually update assumptions used in the calculation of estimated
    gross margins and profits which may have significantly changed.
    If the update of assumptions causes expected future gross
    margins and profits to increase, DAC and VOBA amortization will
    decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the assumption update causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to decrease.

Over the last several years, the Company s most significant
    assumption updates resulting in a change to expected future
    gross margins and profits and the amortization of DAC and VOBA
    have been updated due to revisions to expected future investment
    returns, expenses, in-force or persistency assumptions and
    policyholder dividends on contracts included within the
    Insurance Products and Retirement Products segments. During
    2009, the amount of net investment gains (losses), as well as
    the level of separate account balances also resulted in
    significant changes to expected future gross margins and profits
    impacting amortization of DAC and VOBA. The Company expects
    these assumptions to be the ones most reasonably likely to cause
    significant changes in the future. Changes in these assumptions
    can be offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their
    movement or offsetting impact over time.

Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements provides a rollforward of DAC and VOBA for the
    Company for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
    and 2007, as well as a breakdown of DAC and VOBA by segment and
    reporting unit at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, DAC and VOBA for the Company
    was $19.3 billion and $20.1 billion, respectively. A
    substantial portion, approximately 84%, of the Company s
    DAC and VOBA was associated with the Insurance Products and
    Retirement Products segments at December 31, 2009. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, DAC and VOBA for these segments
    was $16.1 billion and $17.4 billion, respectively.
    Amortization of DAC and VOBA associated with the
    variable   universal life and the annuities contracts
    within the Insurance Products and Retirement Products segments
    are significantly impacted by movements in equity markets. The
    following chart illustrates the effect on DAC and VOBA within
    the Company s U.S. Business of changing each of the
    respective assumptions, as well as updating estimated gross
    margins or profits with actual gross margins or profits during
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Increases
    (decreases) in DAC and VOBA balances, as presented below, result
    in a corresponding decrease (increase) in amortization.

Prior to 2008, fluctuations in the amounts presented in the
    table above arose principally from normal assumption reviews
    during the period.

75

Table of Contents   

The following represents significant items contributing to the
    changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2009:

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of increased
    investment losses from the portfolios associated with the
    hedging of guaranteed insurance obligations on variable
    annuities, resulting in a decrease of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $141 million.

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the
    following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:

Actual gross profits increased as a result of a decrease in
    liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable
    annuities, resulting in an increase of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $995 million, excluding the impact from the
    Company s own credit and risk margins, which are described
    below. This increase in actual gross profits was partially
    offset by freestanding derivative losses associated with the
    hedging of such guarantee obligations, which resulted in a
    decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization of $636 million.

The narrowing of the Company s own credit spreads increased
    the valuation of guarantee liabilities, decreased actual gross
    profits and decreased DAC and VOBA amortization by
    $607 million. This was partially offset by lower risk
    margins which decreased the guarantee liability valuations,
    increased actual gross profits and increased DAC and VOBA
    amortization by $20 million.

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses),
    which decreased DAC amortization by $484 million, was
    primarily attributable to current period investment activities.

Included in policyholder dividends and other was a decrease in
    amortization of $90 million as a result of changes to long
    term assumptions. The remainder of the decrease was due to
    various immaterial items.

The following represent significant items contributing to the
    changes to DAC and VOBA amortization in 2008:

The decrease in equity markets during the year significantly
    lowered separate account balances which lead to a significant
    reduction in expected future gross profits on variable universal
    life contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts resulting
    in an increase of $708 million in DAC and VOBA amortization.

Changes in net investment gains (losses) resulted in the
    following changes in DAC and VOBA amortization:

Actual gross profits decreased as a result of an increase in
    liabilities associated with guarantee obligations on variable
    annuities resulting in a reduction of DAC and VOBA amortization
    of $1,047 million. This decrease in actual gross profits
    was mitigated by freestanding derivative gains associated with
    the hedging of such guarantee obligations which resulted in an
    increase in actual gross profits and an increase in DAC and VOBA
    amortization of $625 million.

The widening of the Company s own credit spreads decreased
    the valuation of guarantee liabilities, increased actual gross
    profits and increased DAC and VOBA amortization by
    $739 million. This was partially offset by higher risk
    margins which increased the guarantee liability valuations,
    decreased actual gross profits and decreased DAC and VOBA
    amortization by $100 million.

Reductions in both actual and expected cumulative earnings of
    the closed block resulting from recent experience in the closed
    block combined with changes in expected dividend scales resulted
    in an increase in closed block DAC amortization of
    $195 million, $175 million of which was related to net
    investment gains (losses).

The remainder of the impact of net investment gains (losses),
    which increased DAC amortization by $129 million, was
    attributable to numerous immaterial items.

Increases in amortization in 2008 resulting from changes in
    assumptions related to in-force/persistency of $159 million
    were driven by higher than anticipated mortality and lower than
    anticipated premium persistency during 2008.

The Company s DAC and VOBA balance is also impacted by
    unrealized investment gains (losses) and the amount of
    amortization which would have been recognized if such gains and
    losses had been recognized. The significant decrease in
    unrealized investment losses decreased the DAC and VOBA balance
    by $2.8 billion in 2009

76

Table of Contents   

whereas increases in unrealized investment losses increased the
    DAC and VOBA balance by $3.4 billion in 2008. Notes 3
    and 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    include the DAC and VOBA offset to unrealized investment losses.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
    impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test. We perform our annual goodwill impairment testing
    during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the
    close of the second quarter.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, a significant portion of goodwill
    within Banking, Corporate   Other is allocated to
    reporting units within our business segments.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
    there might be an indication of impairment. In such instances,
    the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same
    manner as the amount of goodwill would be determined in a
    business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of
    goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill is recognized
    as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.

In performing our goodwill impairment tests, when we believe
    meaningful comparable market data are available, the estimated
    fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market
    multiple approach. When relevant comparables are not available,
    we use a discounted cash flow model. For reporting units which
    are particularly sensitive to market assumptions, such as the
    retirement products and individual life reporting units, we may
    corroborate our estimated fair values by using additional
    valuation methodologies.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining estimated fair value include projected operating
    earnings, current book value (with and without accumulated other
    comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to
    support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative
    market multiples, the account value of in-force business,
    projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on
    such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity market levels, and the discount rate we believe
    appropriate to the risk associated with the respective reporting
    unit. The estimated fair value of the retirement products and
    individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to
    the equity market levels.

When testing goodwill for impairment, we also consider our
    market capitalization in relation to our book value. We believe
    that our current market capitalization supports the value of the
    underlying reporting units.

We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated
    fair value of our reporting units and when assessing the
    relationship of market capitalization to the estimated fair
    value of our reporting units and their book value. The valuation
    methodologies utilized are subject to key judgments and
    assumptions that are sensitive to change. Estimates of fair
    value are inherently uncertain and represent only
    management s reasonable expectation regarding future
    developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions
    upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood,
    differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in
    the estimated fair value of our reporting units could result in
    goodwill impairments in future periods which could materially
    adversely affect our results of operations or financial position.

During our 2009 impairment tests of goodwill, we concluded that
    the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their
    carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired.
    However, we continue to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of our reporting units to
    assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Deteriorating or
    adverse market conditions for certain reporting units may have a
    significant impact on the estimated fair value of these
    reporting units and could result in future impairments of
    goodwill. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further consideration of goodwill
    impairment testing during 2009.

77

Table of Contents   

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance.
    Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time
    and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of
    future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value
    of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established
    based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
    GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
    used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy
    benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations,
    investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent
    events as appropriate to the respective product type. These
    assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued and
    are intended to estimate the experience for the period the
    policy benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions,
    liabilities are established on a block of business basis. If
    experience is less favorable than assumptions, additional
    liabilities may be required, resulting in a charge to
    policyholder benefits and claims.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Other policyholder funds include claims that have been
    reported but not settled and claims incurred but not reported on
    life and non-medical health insurance. Liabilities for unpaid
    claims are estimated based upon the Company s historical
    experience and other actuarial assumptions that consider the
    effects of current developments, anticipated trends and risk
    management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage and
    subrogation. The effects of changes in such estimated
    liabilities are included in the results of operations in the
    period in which the changes occur.

Future policy benefit liabilities for minimum death and income
    benefit guarantees relating to certain annuity contracts and
    secondary and paid-up guarantees relating to certain life
    policies are based on estimates of the expected value of
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. Liabilities for universal
    and variable life secondary guarantees and
     paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    assumptions used in estimating these liabilities are consistent
    with those used for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the
    same variability and risk. The assumptions of investment
    performance and volatility for variable products are consistent
    with historical S P experience.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing of these policies and guarantees
    and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in
    variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of
    changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the
    results of operations in the period in which the changes occur.

Reinsurance   

The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
    purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and
    also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products
    issued by third parties. Accounting for reinsurance requires
    extensive use of assumptions and estimates, particularly related
    to the future performance of the underlying business and the
    potential impact of counterparty credit risks. The Company
    periodically reviews actual and anticipated experience compared
    to the aforementioned assumptions used to establish assets and
    liabilities relating to ceded and assumed reinsurance and
    evaluates the financial strength of counterparties to its
    reinsurance agreements using criteria similar to that evaluated
    in the security impairment process discussed previously.
    Additionally, for each of its reinsurance agreements, the
    Company determines if the agreement provides indemnification
    against loss or liability relating to insurance risk, in
    accordance with applicable accounting standards. The Company
    reviews all contractual features, particularly those that may
    limit the amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is
    subject or features that delay the timely reimbursement of
    claims. If the

78

Table of Contents   

Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not expose
    the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a significant loss
    from insurance risk, the Company records the agreement using the
    deposit method of accounting.

Income
    Taxes   

Income taxes represent the net amount of income taxes that the
    Company expects to pay to or receive from various taxing
    jurisdictions in connection with its operations. The Company
    provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes currently
    payable, as well as those deferred due to temporary differences
    between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and
    liabilities. The Company s accounting for income taxes
    represents management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse. The
    realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of
    sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward
    periods under the tax law in the applicable tax jurisdiction.
    Valuation allowances are established when management determines,
    based on available information, that it is more likely than not
    that deferred income tax assets will not be realized. Factors in
    management s determination consider the performance of the
    business including the ability to generate capital gains.
    Significant judgment is required in determining whether
    valuation allowances should be established, as well as the
    amount of such allowances. When making such determination,
    consideration is given to, among other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a
    tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
    appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit is
    recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is measured
    at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than
    50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The
    Company may be required to change its provision for income taxes
    when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is challenged
    by taxing authorities or when estimates used in determining
    valuation allowances on deferred tax assets significantly
    change, or when receipt of new information indicates the need
    for adjustment in valuation allowances. Additionally, future
    events, such as changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or
    interpretations of such laws or regulations, could have an
    impact on the provision for income tax and the effective tax
    rate. Any such changes could significantly affect the amounts
    reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year
    these changes occur.

Employee
    Benefit Plans   

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    covering employees who meet specified eligibility requirements.
    The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. In
    consultation with our external consulting actuarial firm, we
    determine these assumptions based upon a variety of factors such
    as historical performance of the plan and its assets, currently
    available market and industry data, and expected benefit payout
    streams. The assumptions used may differ materially from actual
    results due to, among other factors, changing market and
    economic conditions and changes in participant demographics.
    These differences may have a significant effect on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements and liquidity.

79

Table of Contents   

Litigation
    Contingencies   

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. Liabilities related to certain lawsuits, including
    the Company s asbestos-related liability, are especially
    difficult to estimate due to the limitation of available data
    and uncertainty regarding numerous variables that can affect
    liability estimates. The data and variables that impact the
    assumptions used to estimate the Company s asbestos-related
    liability include the number of future claims, the cost to
    resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in
    pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new
    claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the
    law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible
    impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to
    allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against the Company when
    exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos
    exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future
    adverse verdicts and their amounts. On a quarterly and annual
    basis, the Company reviews relevant information with respect to
    liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and
    litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in the
    Company s consolidated financial statements. It is possible
    that an adverse outcome in certain of the Company s
    litigation and regulatory investigations, including
    asbestos-related cases, or the use of different assumptions in
    the determination of amounts recorded could have a material
    effect upon the Company s consolidated net income or cash
    flows in particular quarterly or annual periods.

Economic
    Capital  

Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in MetLife s businesses. As a part of the
    economic capital process, a portion of net investment income is
    credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity.
    This is in contrast to the standardized regulatory risk-based
    capital ( RBC ) formula, which is not as refined in
    its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the
    Company s businesses.

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Recent
    Developments  

On February 2, 2010, MetLife announced that it is in discussions
    with American International Group, Inc. about acquiring its
    subsidiary, American Life Insurance Company, an international
    life insurance company. These discussions are ongoing. No
    agreement has been reached and there are no assurances that an
    agreement will be reached.

Consolidated
    Results of Operations  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2008  

Unfavorable market conditions continued through 2009, providing
    a challenging business environment. The largest and most
    significant impact continued to be on our investment portfolio
    as declining yields resulted in lower net investment income.
    Market sensitive expenses were also negatively impacted by the
    market conditions as evidenced by an increase in pension and
    postretirement benefit costs. Higher levels of unemployment
    continued to impact certain group businesses as a decrease in
    covered payrolls reduced growth. Our auto and homeowners
    business was impacted by a declining housing market, the
    deterioration of the new auto sales market and the continuation
    of credit availability issues, all of which contributed to a
    decrease in insured exposures. Despite the challenging business
    environment, revenue growth remained solid in the majority of
    our businesses. A flight to quality during the year contributed
    to an improvement in sales in both our domestic fixed and
    variable annuity products. We also saw an increase in market
    share, especially in the structured settlement business, where
    we experienced an increase of 53% in premiums. An improvement in
    the global financial markets contributed to a recovery of sales
    in most of our international regions and resulted in improved
    investment performance in some

80

Table of Contents   

regions during the second half of 2009. We also benefited
    domestically from a strong residential mortgage refinance market
    and healthy growth in the reverse mortgage arena.

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are net of income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax
    decreased $5.8 billion to a loss of $2.3 billion from
    income of $3.5 billion in the comparable 2008 period. The
    year over year change is predominantly due to a
    $5.2 billion unfavorable change in net investment gains
    (losses) to losses of $4.6 billion, net of related
    adjustments, in 2009 from gains of $644 million, net of
    related adjustments, in 2008.

81

Table of Contents   

We manage our investment portfolio using disciplined
    Asset/Liability Management principles, focusing on cash flow and
    duration to support our current and future liabilities. Our
    intent is to match the timing and amount of liability cash
    outflows with invested assets that have cash inflows of
    comparable timing and amount, while optimizing, net of income
    tax, risk-adjusted net investment income and risk-adjusted total
    return. Our investment portfolio is heavily weighted toward
    fixed income investments, with over 80% of our portfolio
    invested in fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. These
    securities and loans have varying maturities and other
    characteristics which cause them to be generally well suited for
    matching the cash flow and duration of insurance liabilities.
    Other invested asset classes including, but not limited to
    equity securities, other limited partnership interests and real
    estate and real estate joint ventures provide additional
    diversification and opportunity for long term yield enhancement
    in addition to supporting the cash flow and duration objectives
    of our investment portfolio. We also use derivatives as an
    integral part of our management of the investment portfolio to
    hedge certain risks, including changes in interest rates,
    foreign currencies, credit spreads and equity market levels.
    Additional considerations for our investment portfolio include
    current and expected market conditions and expectations for
    changes within our unique mix of products and business segments.

The composition of the investment portfolio of each business
    segment is tailored to the unique characteristics of its
    insurance liabilities, causing certain portfolios to be shorter
    in duration and others to be longer in duration. Accordingly,
    certain portfolios are more heavily weighted in fixed maturity
    securities, or certain
     sub-sectors 
    of fixed maturity securities, than other portfolios.

Investments are purchased to support our insurance liabilities
    and not to generate net investment gains and losses. However,
    net investment gains and losses are generated and can change
    significantly from period to period, due to changes in external
    influences including movements in interest rates, foreign
    currencies and credit spreads, counterparty specific factors
    such as financial performance, credit rating and collateral
    valuation, and internal factors such as portfolio rebalancing
    that can generate gains and losses. As an investor in the fixed
    income, equity security, mortgage loan and certain other
    invested asset classes, we are exposed to the above stated
    risks, which can lead to both impairments and credit-related
    losses.

The unfavorable variance in net investment gains (losses) of
    $5.2 billion, net of related adjustments, was primarily
    driven by losses on freestanding derivatives, partially offset
    by gains on embedded derivatives associated with variable
    annuity minimum benefit guarantees, and decreased losses on
    fixed maturity securities. The negative change in freestanding
    derivatives, from gains in the prior year to losses in the
    current year, was primarily attributable to the effect of rising
    interest rates on certain interest rate sensitive derivatives
    that are economic hedges of certain invested assets and
    insurance liabilities; weakening U.S. Dollar on certain
    foreign currency sensitive derivatives, and equity market and
    interest rate derivatives that are economic hedges of embedded
    derivatives. Losses on embedded derivatives decreased from
    losses to gains and were driven primarily by rising interest
    rates and improving equity market performance. The gains were
    net of losses attributable to a narrowing of the Company s
    own credit spread. Losses on the freestanding derivatives
    hedging these embedded derivatives risks substantially offset
    the change in the liabilities attributable to market factors,
    excluding the adjustment for the change in the Company s
    own credit spread, which is not hedged. The decrease in losses
    on fixed maturity securities is primarily attributable to lower
    net losses on sales of fixed maturity securities, partially
    offset by increased impairments due to the current financial
    market conditions, although this trend lessened in the latter
    part of 2009.

As more fully described in the discussion of performance
    measures above, operating earnings is the measure of segment
    profit or loss we use to evaluate performance and allocate
    resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment
    reporting, it is our measure of performance, as reported below.
    Operating earnings is not determined in accordance with GAAP and
    should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP income (loss) from
    continuing operations, net of income tax. We believe that the
    presentation of operating earnings enhances the understanding of
    our performance by highlighting the results of operations and
    the underlying profitability drivers of the business. Operating
    earnings available to common shareholders decreased by
    $329 million to $2.4 billion in 2009 from
    $2.7 billion in 2008.

82

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation
    of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    to operating earnings available to common shareholders  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008  

83

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation
    of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to
    operating expenses  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2009  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008  

The volatile market conditions that began in 2008 and continued
    into 2009 impacted several key components of our operating
    earnings available to common shareholders including net
    investment income, hedging costs, and certain market sensitive
    expenses. The markets also positively impacted our operating
    earnings available to common shareholders as conditions began to
    improve during 2009, resulting in lower DAC and DSI amortization.

A $722 million decline in net investment income was the
    result of decreasing yields, including the effects of our higher
    quality, more liquid, but lower yielding investment position in
    response to the extraordinary market conditions. The impact of
    declining yields caused a $1.6 billion decrease in net
    investment income, which was partially offset by an increase of
    $846 million due to growth in average invested assets
    calculated excluding unrealized gains and losses. The decrease
    in yields resulted from the disruption and dislocation in the
    global financial markets experienced in 2008, which continued,
    but moderated, in 2009. The adverse yield impact was
    concentrated in the following four invested asset classes:

Fixed maturity securities   primarily due to lower
    yields on floating rate securities from declines in short-term
    interest rates and an increased allocation to lower yielding,
    higher quality, U.S. Treasury, agency and

84

Table of Contents   

government guaranteed securities, to increase liquidity in
    response to the extraordinary market conditions, as well as
    decreased income on our securities lending program, primarily
    due to the smaller size of the program in the current year.
    These adverse impacts were offset slightly as conditions
    improved late in 2009 and we began to reallocate our portfolio
    to higher-yielding assets;

Real estate joint ventures   primarily due to
    declining property valuations on certain investment funds that
    carry their real estate at estimated fair value and operating
    losses incurred on properties that were developed for sale by
    development joint ventures;

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments  
    primarily due to declines in short-term interest rates; and

Mortgage loans   primarily due to lower prepayments on
    commercial mortgage loans and lower yields on variable rate
    loans reflecting declines in short-term interest rates.

Equity markets experienced some recovery in 2009, which led to
    improved yields on other limited partnership interests. As many
    of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was significantly offset by lower interest
    credited expense on our investment and insurance products.

The financial market conditions also resulted in a
    $348 million increase in net guaranteed annuity benefit
    costs in our Retirement Products segment, as increased hedging
    losses were only partially offset by lower guaranteed benefit
    costs.

The key driver of the increase in other expenses stemmed from
    the impact of market conditions on certain expenses, primarily
    pension and postretirement benefit costs, reinsurance expenses
    and letter of credit fees. These increases coupled with higher
    variable costs, such as commissions and premium taxes, some of
    which have been capitalized, more than offset the favorable
    impact of lower information technology, travel, professional
    services and advertising expenses, which include the impact of
    our Operational Excellence initiative.

The market improvement which began in the second quarter of 2009
    was a key factor in the determination of our expected future
    gross profits, the increase of which triggered a decrease in DAC
    and DSI amortization, most significantly in the Retirement
    Products segment. The increase in our expected future gross
    profits stemmed primarily from an increase in the market value
    of our separate account balances, which is attributable, in
    part, to the improving financial markets. Our Insurance Products
    segment benefited, in the current year, from an increase in
    amortization of unearned revenue, primarily as a result of our
    annual review of assumptions that are used in the determination
    of the amount of amortization recognized. These collective
    changes in amortization resulted in a $720 million benefit,
    partially offsetting the declines in operating earnings
    available to common shareholders discussed above.

A portion of the decline in operating earnings available to
    common shareholders was caused by a $200 million reduction
    in the results of our closed block of business, a specific group
    of participating life policies that were segregated in
    connection with the demutualization of MLIC. Until early 2009,
    the operating earnings of the closed block did not have a full
    impact on operating earnings as the operating earnings or loss
    was partially offset by a change in the policyholder dividend
    obligation, a liability established at the time of
    demutualization. However, in early 2009 the policyholder
    dividend obligation was depleted and, as a result, the total
    operating earnings or loss related to the closed block for the
    year ended December 31, 2009 was, and in the future may be
    a component of operating earnings.

Business growth, from the majority of our businesses, along with
    net favorable mortality experience, had a positive impact on
    operating earnings available to common shareholders. These
    impacts were somewhat dampened by higher benefit utilization in
    our dental business and mixed claim activity in our Auto  
    Home segment. In addition, our forward and reverse residential
    mortgage platform acquisitions in late 2008 benefited Banking,
    Corporate   Other s 2009 results.

85

Table of Contents   

Insurance
    Products  

Unfavorable market conditions, which continued through 2009,
    provided a challenging business environment for our Insurance
    Products segment. This resulted in lower net investment income
    and an increase in market sensitive expenses, primarily pension
    and postretirement benefit costs. We also experienced higher
    utilization of dental benefits along with a lower number of
    recoveries in our disability business. Higher levels of
    unemployment continued to impact certain group businesses as a
    decrease in covered payrolls reduced growth. However, revenue
    growth remained solid in all of our businesses. Revenue growth
    in our dental and individual life businesses reflected strong
    sales and renewals.

The significant components of the $168 million decline in
    operating earnings were the aforementioned decline in net
    investment income, especially in the closed block business,
    partially offset by an increase in the amortization of unearned
    revenue, the impact of a reduction in dividends to certain
    policyholders and favorable mortality in the individual life
    business.

Until early 2009, the earnings of the closed block did not have
    a full impact on operating earnings as the earnings or loss was
    partially offset by a change in the policyholder dividend
    obligation. However, in early 2009 the policyholder dividend
    obligation was depleted and, as a result, the total operating
    earnings or loss related to the closed block for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 was, and in the future may be, a
    component of operating earnings. This resulted in a
    $200 million decline in operating earnings in 2009.

The decrease in net investment income of $112 million was
    primarily due to a $317 million decrease from lower yields,
    partially offset by a $205 million increase from growth in
    average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by the
    severe downturn in the global financial markets, which primarily
    impacted other invested assets, real estate joint ventures and
    fixed maturity securities. In addition, income from our
    securities lending program decreased primarily due to the
    smaller size of the program in 2009. The growth in the average
    invested asset base was primarily from an increase in net flows
    from our individual life, non-medical health, and group life
    businesses. The moderate recovery in equity markets in 2009 led
    to improved yields on other limited partnership interests, which
    partially offset the overall reduction in yields. To manage the
    needs of our intermediate to longer-term liabilities, our
    portfolio consists primarily of investment grade corporate fixed
    maturity securities, structured finance securities (comprised of
    mortgage and asset-backed securities), mortgage loans, and
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed
    maturity securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other
    invested asset classes

86

Table of Contents   

including real estate joint ventures and other invested assets
    to provide additional diversification and opportunity for
    long-term yield enhancement.

Other expenses were essentially flat despite an increase of
    $137 million from the impact of market conditions on
    certain expenses, primarily pension and postretirement benefit
    costs. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of
    $85 million, predominantly from declines in information
    technology, travel, and professional services, including the
    positive impact of our Operational Excellence initiative. A
    further reduction of expenses was achieved through a decrease in
    variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes of
    $46 million, a portion of which is offset by DAC
    capitalization.

The aforementioned declines in operating earnings were partially
    offset by the favorable impact of a $63 million decrease in
    policyholder dividends in the traditional life business, the
    result of a dividend scale reduction in the fourth quarter of
    2009. In addition, favorable mortality in the individual life
    business was partially offset by higher benefit utilization in
    the dental business during 2009, reflecting the negative
    employment trends in the marketplace. The net impact of these
    two items benefited operating earnings by $36 million. The
    2009 results were also favorably impacted by our review of
    assumptions used to determine estimated gross profits and
    margins, which in turn are factors in determining the
    amortization for DAC and unearned revenue. This review resulted
    in an unlocking event related to unearned revenue and, coupled
    with the impact from the prior year s review, generated an
    increase in operating earnings of $82 million. This
    increase was recorded in universal life and investment-type
    product policy fees. Partially offsetting these increases was
    the impact of lower separate account balances, which resulted in
    lower fee income of $25 million.

DAC amortization reflects lower current year amortization of
    $108 million, stemming from the impact of the improvement
    in the financial markets in 2009, which increased our expected
    future gross profits, as well as lower current year gross
    margins in the closed block. This decrease was partially offset
    by the net impact of refinements in both the prior and current
    years of $98 million, the majority of which was recorded in
    the prior year as a result of the 2008 review of certain DAC
    related assumptions.

Retirement
    Products  

In 2009, Retirement Products benefited from a flight to quality,
    which contributed to a 10% improvement in combined sales of our
    fixed and variable products and a 28% reduction in surrenders
    and withdrawals. Our variable

87

Table of Contents   

annuity sales have out paced the industry, increasing our market
    share. Fixed annuity sales benefited from enhanced marketing on
    our income annuity with life contingency products, which
    increased our premium revenues by $262 million, or 73%,
    before income taxes. In the annuity business, the movement in
    premiums is almost entirely offset by the related change in
    policyholder benefits, as the insurance liability that we
    establish at the time we assume the risk under these contracts
    is typically equivalent to the premium earned less the amount of
    acquisition expenses. Our average policyholder account balances
    grew by $7.2 billion in 2009, primarily due to an increase
    in sales of fixed annuity products and more customers electing
    the fixed option on variable annuity sales. This has a favorable
    impact on earnings by increasing net investment income, which is
    somewhat offset by higher interest credited expense. Unfavorable
    market conditions resulted in poor investment performance, which
    outweighed the impact of higher variable annuity sales on our
    separate account balances causing the average separate account
    balance to remain lower than the previous year. This resulted in
    lower policy fees and other revenues which are based on daily
    asset balances in the policyholder separate accounts.

The improvement in the financial markets was the primary driver
    of the $144 million increase in operating earnings, with
    the largest impact resulting in a decrease in DAC, VOBA and DSI
    amortization of $655 million. The 2008 results reflected
    increased, or accelerated, amortization primarily stemming from
    a decline in the market value of our separate account balances.
    A factor that determines the amount of amortization is expected
    future earnings, which in the annuity business are derived, in
    part, from fees earned on separate account balances. The market
    value of our separate account balances declined significantly in
    2008, resulting in a decrease in the expected future gross
    profits, triggering an acceleration of amortization in 2008.
    Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the market conditions
    began to improve and the market value of our separate account
    balances began to increase, resulting in an increase in the
    expected future gross profits and a corresponding lower level of
    amortization in 2009.

Also contributing to the increase in operating earnings was an
    increase in net investment income of $321 million, which
    was primarily due to a $343 million increase from growth in
    average invested assets, partially offset by a $22 million
    decrease in yields. The increase in average invested assets was
    due to increased cash flows from the sales of fixed annuity
    products and more customers electing the fixed option on
    variable annuity sales, which were reinvested primarily in fixed
    maturity securities, other invested assets and mortgage loans.
    Yields were adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the
    global financial markets which primarily impacted real estate
    joint ventures, fixed maturity securities and cash, cash
    equivalents and short-term investments. The moderate improvement
    in the equity markets in 2009 led to an increase in yields on
    other limited partnership interests and certain other invested
    assets, which partially offset the overall reduction in yields.
    To manage the needs of our intermediate to longer-term
    liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily of investment
    grade corporate fixed maturity securities, structured finance
    securities, mortgage loans and U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities and, to a lesser
    extent, certain other invested asset classes, including real
    estate joint ventures in order to provide additional
    diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement.
    As is typically the case with fixed annuity products, higher net
    investment income was somewhat offset by higher interest
    credited expense. Growth in our fixed annuity policyholder
    account balances increased interest credited expense by
    $177 million in 2009 and higher average crediting rates on
    fixed annuities increased interest credited expense by
    $37 million.

Operating earnings were negatively impacted by $348 million
    of operating losses related to the hedging programs for variable
    annuity minimum death and income benefit guarantees, which are
    not embedded derivatives, partially offset by a decrease in the
    liability established for these variable annuity guarantees. The
    various hedging strategies in place to offset the risk
    associated with these variable annuity guarantee benefits were
    more sensitive to market movements than the liability for the
    guaranteed benefit. Market volatility, improvements in the
    equity markets, and higher interest rates produced operating
    losses on these hedging strategies in the current year. Our
    hedging strategies, which are a key part of our risk management,
    performed as anticipated. The decrease in annuity guarantee
    benefit liabilities was due to the improvement in the equity
    markets, higher interest rates and the annual unlocking of
    future market expectations.

Other expenses increased by $221 million primarily due to
    an increase of $122 million from the impact of market
    conditions on certain expenses. These expenses are largely
    comprised of reinsurance costs, pension and postretirement
    benefit expenses, and letter of credit fees. In addition,
    variable expenses, such as commissions and premium taxes,
    increased $76 million, the majority of which have been
    offset by DAC capitalization. The positive

88

Table of Contents   

impact of our Operational Excellence initiative was reflected in
    lower information technology, travel, professional services and
    advertising expenses, but was more than offset by increases
    largely due to business growth.

Finally, policy fees and other revenues decreased by
    $100 million, mainly due to lower average separate account
    balances in the current year versus prior year.

Corporate
    Benefit Funding  

Corporate Benefit Funding benefited in certain markets in 2009
    as a flight to quality helped drive our increase in market
    share, especially in the structured settlement business, where
    we experienced a 53% increase in premiums. Our pension closeout
    business in the United Kingdom continues to expand and
    experienced premium growth during 2009 of almost
    $400 million, or 105% before income taxes. However, this
    growth was more than offset by a decline in our domestic pension
    closeout business driven by unfavorable market conditions and
    regulatory changes. A combination of poor equity returns and
    lower interest rates have contributed to pension plans being
    under funded, which reduces our customers  flexibility to
    engage in transactions such as pension closeouts. Our
    customers  plans funded status may be affected by a variety
    of factors, including the ongoing phased implementation of the
    Pensions Protection Act of 2006. For each of these businesses,
    the movement in premiums is almost entirely offset by the
    related change in policyholder benefits. The insurance liability
    that is established at the time we assume the risk under these
    contracts is typically equivalent to the premium earned.

Market conditions also contributed to a lower demand for several
    of our investment-type products. The decrease in sales of these
    investment-type products is not necessarily evident in our
    results of operations as the transactions related to these
    products are recorded through the balance sheet. Our funding
    agreement products, primarily the London
     Inter-Bank 
    Offer Rate ( LIBOR ) based contracts, experienced the
    most significant impact from the volatile market conditions. As
    companies seek greater liquidity, investment managers are
    refraining from repurchasing the contracts when they mature and
    are opting for more liquid investments. In addition, unfavorable
    market conditions continued to impact the demand for global
    guaranteed interest contracts, a type of funding agreement.

Policyholder account balances for our investment-type products
    were down by approximately $10 billion during 2009, as
    issuances were more than offset by scheduled maturities.
    However, due to the timing of issuances

89

Table of Contents   

and maturities, the average policyholder account balances and
    liabilities increased from 2008 to 2009. The impact of the
    decrease in policyholder account balances resulted in lower net
    investment income, which was somewhat offset by lower interest
    credited expense.

The primary driver of the $362 million decrease in
    operating earnings was lower net investment income of
    $720 million reflecting a $732 million decrease from
    lower yields and a $12 million increase due to growth in
    average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by the
    severe downturn in the global financial markets which impacted
    real estate joint ventures, fixed maturity securities, other
    invested assets and mortgage loans. In addition, income from our
    securities lending program decreased, primarily due to the
    smaller size of the program during the year. To manage the needs
    of our longer-term liabilities, our portfolio consists primarily
    of investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities,
    mortgage loans, U.S. Treasury, agency and government
    guaranteed securities and, to a lesser extent, certain other
    invested asset classes including real estate joint ventures in
    order to provide additional diversification and opportunity for
    long-term yield enhancement. For our shorter-term obligations,
    we invest primarily in structured finance securities, mortgage
    loans and investment grade corporate fixed maturity securities.
    The yields on these investments have moved consistent with the
    underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR and Treasury, on
    which they are based. The growth in the average invested asset
    base is consistent with the increase in the average policyholder
    account balances and liabilities.

As many of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was somewhat offset by lower net interest
    credited expense of $382 million. The decrease in interest
    credited expense is attributed to $438 million from lower
    crediting rates. Crediting rates have moved consistent with the
    underlying market indices, primarily LIBOR, on which they are
    based. The increase in the average policyholder account balances
    resulted in a $56 million increase in interest credited
    expense.

The year over year decline in operating earnings was also due in
    part to lower other revenues as the prior year benefited by
    $44 million in fees for the cancellation of a bank owned
    life insurance stable value wrap policy combined with the
    surrender of a global guaranteed interest contract. In addition,
    a refinement to a reinsurance recoverable in the small business
    record keeping line of business in the latter part of 2009 also
    contributed $20 million to the decrease in operating
    earnings.

Current year results benefited from favorable liability
    refinements as compared to unfavorable liability refinements in
    2008, as well as improved mortality experience in the current
    year, all in the pension closeouts business. These items
    improved 2009 operating earnings by approximately
    $90 million. Other products generated mortality gains or
    losses; however, the net change did not have a material impact
    on our year over year results.

Although our other expenses only increased marginally and are
    not a significant driver of the decrease in operating earnings,
    the general themes associated with the increase are consistent
    with those factors discussed above in the discussion of our
    consolidated results of operations. Market conditions triggered
    an increase in our pension and postretirement benefit expenses
    of $27 million. In addition, variable expenses, such as
    commissions and premium taxes, have increased $8 million.
    These increases were partially offset by a decrease of
    $30 million, primarily in information technology, travel
    and professional services expenses, all of which were largely
    due to our Operational Excellence initiative.

90

Table of Contents   

Auto  
    Home  

Auto   Home was negatively impacted in 2009 by a
    declining housing market, the deterioration of the new auto
    sales market and the continuation of credit availability issues,
    all of which contributed to a decrease in insured exposures in
    2009. Average premiums per policy increased slightly for our
    homeowners  policies but decreased for auto policies,
    primarily as a result of a business shift in insured exposures
    by state. In particular, we experienced a large decrease in
    earned exposures in Massachusetts, whose market was impacted by
    a regulatory change, which resulted in a marked increase in
    competition.

A return to more normal weather conditions in 2009 resulted in
    fewer, and less severe, catastrophe events than in 2008. This
    was more than offset by an increase in both non-catastrophe
    claim frequencies and non-catastrophe claim severities in 2009.

Mixed claim experience and the impact of lower exposures were
    the primary drivers of the $41 million decrease in
    operating earnings. While we had a $90 million decrease in
    catastrophe related losses compared to the prior year, we also
    recorded $68 million less of a benefit in 2009 from
    favorable development of prior year non-catastrophe losses.
    Current year claim costs rose primarily as a result of a
    $29 million increase in claim frequency from both our auto
    and homeowners products. In addition, we had a $15 million
    net increase in claim severity, stemming from higher severity in
    our auto line of business that was partially offset by lower
    severity in our homeowners line of business. In 2009, we
    experienced a decline in insured exposures, which contributed
    approximately $16 million to the decrease in operating
    earnings. While this decrease in exposures had a positive impact
    on the amount of claims, it was more than offset by the negative
    impact on premiums. The decrease in exposures is largely
    attributable to slightly higher non-renewal rates, partially
    offset by greater sales of new policies. Also contributing to
    the decline in earnings was a decrease of $9 million in the
    average premium per policy, which is primarily due to a shift in
    earned exposures to lower average premium states and an increase
    of $10 million in loss adjustment expenses, primarily
    related to a decrease in unallocated loss adjusting expense
    liabilities at the end of 2008.

The impact of the items discussed above can be seen in the
    unfavorable change in the combined ratio, excluding
    catastrophes, to 88.9% in 2009 from 83.1% in 2008 and the
    unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including
    catastrophes, to 92.3% in 2009 from 91.2% in 2008.

A $25 million decrease in other expenses, including the net
    change in DAC, partially offset the declines in operating
    earnings discussed above. This improvement resulted from
    decreases in sales related expenses and from minor fluctuations
    in a number of expense categories, a portion of which is due to
    our Operational Excellence initiative.

91

Table of Contents   

Also contributing to the decrease in operating earnings was a
    decline in net investment income of $4 million which was
    primarily due to a $9 million decrease from a decline in
    average invested assets, partially offset by an increase of
    $5 million due to improved yields.

International  

An improvement in the global financial markets has contributed
    to a recovery of sales in the majority of our International
    regions and has resulted in improved investment performance in
    some regions during the second half of 2009. Sales in our Asia
    Pacific region are down primarily from a decrease in variable
    annuity sales in Japan, primarily as a result of pricing actions
    we took during the latter half of 2009. This decline was
    somewhat offset by growth in South Korea s fixed annuities
    product and an increase of variable universal life sales, which
    are indications that markets are beginning to recover. We
    experienced growth in the pension, group life, and medical
    businesses of our Latin America region, specifically in Mexico.
    Our EMEI region continues to have strong growth in the European
    variable annuity business. As we continue to focus on our
    business in India, we have made significant investments in our
    distribution capabilities.

The reduction in operating earnings includes the adverse impact
    of changes in foreign currency exchange rates in 2009 as the
    U.S. Dollar strengthened against the various foreign currencies.
    This decreased operating earnings by $99 million in 2009
    relative to 2008. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates, operating earnings increased
    $83 million, or 22%, from the prior year. This increase was
    primarily driven by higher operating earnings of
    $184 million in our Asia Pacific region, while operating
    earnings from our Latin America and EMEI regions decreased by
    $83 million and $18 million, respectively.

Asia Pacific Region.   Improving financial
    market conditions was the primary driver of the increase in
    operating earnings. Net investment income in the region
    increased by $422 million due to an increase of
    $278 million from improved yields on our investment
    portfolio, $111 million from the change in results of
    operating joint ventures, and $33 million from an increase
    in average invested assets. The increase in yields was primarily
    due to higher income of $277 million on the trading
    securities portfolio, stemming from equity markets experiencing
    some recovery in 2009. As our trading securities portfolio backs
    unit-linked policyholder liabilities, this increase in income
    was entirely offset by a corresponding increase in interest
    credited expense. The income of the Japan joint venture improved
    by $103 million due to favorable investment results and
    lower amortization of

92

Table of Contents   

DAC and VOBA. The decrease in DAC and VOBA amortization was
    primarily due to an increase in the market value of the joint
    venture s separate account balances, which is directly tied
    to the improving financial markets. A factor that determines the
    amount of DAC and VOBA amortization is expected future fees
    earned on separate account balances. Since the market value of
    separate account balances have increased, it is expected that
    future earnings on this block of business will be higher than
    previously anticipated. As a result, the amortization of DAC and
    VOBA was less in the current year.

Operating earnings in this region also benefited from higher
    surrender charges of $16 million. Difficult economic
    conditions in Korea during the first half of the year resulted
    in a higher level of surrenders. Growth in our Japan reinsurance
    business and an increase in reinsurance rates contributed
    $21 million to the increase in operating earnings. In
    addition, the favorable impact of a reduction in the liability
    for our variable annuity guarantees contributed $22 million
    to operating earnings. The change in the liability was primarily
    due to an increase in separate account balances in the Japan
    joint venture. These liabilities are accrued over the life of
    the contract in proportion to actual and future expected policy
    assessments based on the level of guaranteed minimum benefits
    generated using multiple scenarios of separate account returns.
    The scenarios use best estimate assumptions consistent with
    those used to amortize DAC. Because separate account balances
    have had positive returns relative to the prior year, current
    estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously
    projected which resulted in a decrease in this liability in the
    current period. Partially offsetting these increases, higher DAC
    amortization of $49 million resulted from business growth
    and favorable investment results.

Latin America Region.   The decrease in
    operating earnings was primarily driven by lower net investment
    income. Net investment income decreased by $297 million due
    to a decrease of $383 million from lower yields, partially
    offset by an increase of $86 million due to an increase in
    average invested assets. The decrease in yields was due, in
    part, to the impact of changes in assumptions for measuring the
    effects of inflation on certain inflation-indexed fixed maturity
    securities. This decrease was partially offset by a reduction of
    $221 million in the related insurance liability primarily
    due to lower inflation. The increase in net investment income
    attributable to an increase in average invested assets was
    primarily due to business growth and, as such, was largely
    offset by increases in policyholder benefits and interest
    credited expense.

Higher claim experience in Mexico resulted in a $45 million
    decline in operating earnings. The nationalization and reform of
    the pension business in Argentina impacted both the current year
    and prior year earnings, resulting in a net $36 million
    decline in operating earnings. In addition, operating earnings
    decreased due to a net income tax increase of $8 million in
    Mexico, resulting from a change in assumption regarding the
    repatriation of earnings, partially offset by the favorable
    impact of a lower effective tax rate in 2009.

Partially offsetting these decreases in operating earnings was
    the combination of growth in Mexico s individual and
    institutional businesses and higher premium rates in its
    institutional business, which increased operating earnings by
    $51 million. Pesification in Argentina impacted both the
    current year and prior year earnings, resulting in a net
    $73 million increase in operating earnings. This benefit
    was largely due to a reassessment of our approach in managing
    existing and potential future claims related to certain social
    security pension annuity contract holders in Argentina resulting
    in a liability release. Lower expenses of $8 million
    resulted primarily from the impact of operational efficiencies
    achieved through our Operational Excellence initiative.

EMEI Region.   The impact of foreign currency
    transaction gains and a tax benefit, both of which occurred in
    the prior year, contributed $12 million to the decline in
    operating earnings. Our investment of $9 million in our
    distribution capability and growth initiatives in 2009 also
    reduced operating earnings. There was an increase in net
    investment income of $76 million, which was due to an
    increase of $65 million from an improvement in yields and
    $11 million from an increase in average invested assets.
    The increase in yields was primarily due to favorable results on
    the trading securities portfolio, stemming from the equity
    markets experiencing some recovery in 2009. As our trading
    portfolio backs unit-linked policyholder liabilities, the
    trading portfolio results were entirely offset by a
    corresponding increase in interest credited expense. The
    increase in net investment income attributable to an increase in
    average invested assets was primarily due to business growth and
    was largely offset by increases in policyholder benefits and
    interest credited expense, also due to business growth.

93

Table of Contents   

Banking,
    Corporate   Other  

Banking, Corporate   Other recognized the full year
    impact of our forward and reverse residential mortgage platform
    acquisitions, a strong residential mortgage refinance market,
    healthy growth in the reverse mortgage arena, and a favorable
    interest spread environment. Our forward and reverse residential
    mortgage production of $37.4 billion in 2009 is up 484%
    compared to 2008 production. The increase in mortgage production
    drove higher investments in residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    and mortgage servicing rights. At December 31, 2009, our
    residential mortgage loans servicing portfolio was
    $64.1 billion comprised of agency (FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA)
    portfolios. Transaction and time deposits, which provide a
    relatively stable source of funding and liquidity and are used
    to fund loans and fixed income securities purchases, grew 48% in
    2009 to $10.2 billion. Borrowings decreased 10% in 2009 to
    $2.4 billion. During 2009, we participated in the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York Term Auction Facility, which provided
    short term liquidity with low funding costs.

In response to the economic crisis and unusual financial market
    events that occurred in 2008 and continued into 2009, we decided
    to utilize excess debt capacity. The Holding Company completed
    three debt issuances in 2009. The Holding Company issued
    $397 million of floating rate senior notes in March 2009,
    $1.3 billion of senior notes in May 2009, and
    $500 million of junior subordinated debt securities in July
    2009. In February 2009, in connection with the initial
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts issued as part of the
    common equity units sold in June 2005, the Holding Company
    issued common stock for $1.0 billion. The proceeds from
    these equity and debt issuances were used for general corporate
    purposes and have resulted in increased investments and cash and
    cash equivalents held within Banking, Corporate  
    Other.

Operating earnings available to common shareholders improved by
    $114 million, of which $254 million was due to MetLife
    Bank and its acquisitions of a residential mortgage origination
    and servicing business and a reverse mortgage business, both
    during 2008. Excluding the impact of MetLife Bank, our operating
    earnings available to common shareholders decreased
    $140 million, primarily due to lower net investment income,
    partially offset by the impact of a lower effective tax rate.
    The lower effective tax rate provided an increased benefit of
    $139 million from the prior year. This benefit was the
    result of a partial settlement of certain prior year tax audit
    issues and increased utilization of tax preferenced investments,
    which provide tax credits and deductions.

94

Table of Contents   

Excluding a $68 million increase from MetLife Bank, net
    investment income decreased $283 million, which was
    primarily due a decrease of $287 million due to lower
    yields, partially offset by an increase of $4 million due
    to an increase in average invested assets. Consistent with the
    consolidated results of operations discussion above, yields were
    adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the global
    financial markets, which primarily impacted fixed maturity
    securities and real estate joint ventures. The increased average
    invested asset base was due to cash flows from debt issuances
    during 2009. Our investments primarily include structured
    finance securities, investment grade corporate fixed maturity
    securities, U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed
    fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans. In addition, our
    investment portfolio includes the excess capital not allocated
    to the segments. Accordingly, it includes a higher allocation to
    certain other invested asset classes to provide additional
    diversification and opportunity for long-term yield enhancement
    including leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests,
    real estate, real estate joint ventures and equity securities.

After excluding the impact of a $394 million increase from
    MetLife Bank, other expenses increased by $20 million.
    Deferred compensation costs, which are tied to equity market
    performance, were higher due to a significant market rebound. We
    also had an increase in costs associated with the implementation
    of our Operational Excellence initiative. These increases were
    partially offset by lower postemployment related costs and
    corporate-related expenses, specifically legal costs. Legal
    costs were lower largely due to the prior year commutation of
    asbestos policies. In addition, interest expense declined
    slightly as a result of rate reductions on variable rate
    collateral financing arrangements offset by debt issuances in
    2009 and 2008.

Consolidated
    Results of Operations  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007  

95

Table of Contents   

Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are net of income tax.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, MetLife s
    income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    decreased $624 million to $3.5 billion from
    $4.1 billion in the comparable 2007 period. The year over
    year change was predominantly due to a $1.9 billion
    decrease in operating earnings available to common shareholders.
    Partially offsetting this decline was a $1.1 billion
    favorable change in net investment gains (losses) to gains of
    $644 million, net of related adjustments, in 2008 from
    losses of $438 million, net of related adjustments, in 2007.

Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, there was unprecedented
    disruption and dislocation in the global financial markets that
    caused extreme volatility in the equity, credit and real estate
    markets. This adversely impacted net investment income as market
    yields decreased and portfolio yields decreased from an
    increased allocation to lower yielding, more liquid investments.
    The adverse impact on net investment gains (losses) from
    increased impairments and credit-related realized losses was
    more than offset by favorable market value changes in derivative
    instruments.

The increase in net investment gains of $1.1 billion, net
    of related adjustments, was primarily driven by increased gains
    on freestanding derivatives, partially offset by increased
    losses on embedded derivatives primarily associated with
    variable annuity minimum benefit guarantees, and increased
    impairment losses on fixed maturity securities and equity
    securities. The increased gains on freestanding derivatives were
    from certain interest sensitive derivatives that are economic
    hedges of certain invested assets and liabilities; gains from
    foreign currency derivatives primarily due to the
    U.S. Dollar strengthening; and gains from equity and
    interest rate derivatives that are economic hedges of embedded
    derivatives. Losses on embedded derivatives increased and were
    driven by declining interest rates and poor equity market
    performance, and were net of gains attributable to a widening in
    the Company s own credit spread. The gains on freestanding
    derivatives hedging these embedded derivative risks
    substantially offset the change in the liabilities attributable
    to market factors, excluding the adjustment for the change in
    the Company s own credit spread, which is not hedged. The
    increased impairment losses on fixed maturity and equity
    securities were primarily associated with financial services
    industry holdings due to the stress in the global financial
    markets, as well as other credit-related impairments due to the
    lack of intent to hold or uncertainty on intent to hold certain
    securities until recovery of market value declines.

96

Table of Contents   

Operating earnings available to common shareholders decreased by
    $1.9 billion to $2.7 billion in 2008 from
    $4.6 billion in 2007.

Reconciliation
    of income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax,
    to operating earnings available to common shareholders  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007  

97

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation
    of GAAP revenues to operating revenues and GAAP expenses to
    operating expenses  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2008  

Year
    Ended December 31, 2007  

Unprecedented disruption and dislocation in the global financial
    markets caused extreme volatility in the equity, credit and real
    estate markets during 2008. Consequently, we experienced
    decreasing yields on our investment portfolio and, in response
    to the extraordinary market conditions, we increased our
    allocation to lower yielding, more liquid investments, causing a
    $1.4 billion decline in net investment income. This decline
    was

98

Table of Contents   

partially offset by growth in average invested assets calculated
    excluding unrealized gains and losses. The adverse yield impact
    was concentrated in the following four invested asset classes:

Other limited partnership interests   primarily due to
    the lack of liquidity and credit in the financial markets, as
    well as unprecedented investor redemptions in an environment
    with steep declines in the public equity and debt markets;

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments  
    primarily due to declines in short-term interest rates;

Fixed maturity securities   primarily due to lower
    yields on floating rate securities due to declines in short-term
    interest rates and an increased allocation to lower yielding,
    higher quality, U.S. government and agency securities, to
    increase liquidity in response to the extraordinary market
    conditions; and

Real estate joint ventures   primarily due to
    declining property valuations on certain investment funds that
    carry their real estate at estimated fair value and operating
    losses incurred on properties that were developed for sale by
    real estate development joint ventures.

As many of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was significantly offset by lower interest
    credited expense on our investment and insurance products. In
    addition to its impact on net investment income, the volatile
    market environment also negatively impacted operating earnings
    through an increase in DAC amortization, most significantly in
    the Retirement Products segment. The acceleration of
    amortization stemmed primarily as a result of the decline in the
    market value of our separate account balances, which is directly
    tied to the financial markets. Lower separate account balances
    also resulted in a decrease in policy fees and other revenues.

Unfavorable mortality experience in the group and individual
    life businesses and unfavorable claims experience in the
    non-medical health and other business reduced operating earnings
    in our Insurance Products segment. Also contributing to the
    decrease in operating earnings available to common shareholders
    was the impact of significant weather-related catastrophe
    losses, which were somewhat offset by lower non-catastrophe
    losses in our Auto   Home segment. Lastly, the
    implementation of our Operational Excellence initiative resulted
    in higher postemployment costs in Banking, Corporate  
    Other.

Higher earnings from our dental business as well as from our
    businesses in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions
    partially offset the unfavorable impacts discussed above. In
    addition, our banking acquisitions in 2008, discussed under
     Acquisitions and Dispositions,  improved operating
    earnings available to common shareholders in Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

99

Table of Contents   

Insurance
    Products  

Extreme volatility in the equity, credit and real estate markets
    resulted in decreasing yields on our investment portfolio
    causing net investment income to decline by $190 million
    despite growth in average invested assets. The market
    environment had its most significant impact on other limited
    partnership interests, real estate joint ventures and fixed
    maturity securities. Net investment income from the general
    account portion of investment-type products, including variable
    universal life, group life and certain non-medical health
    products decreased by $135 million, while other businesses,
    including traditional life, decreased by $55 million.

As many of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was significantly offset by lower interest
    credited expense on our investment and insurance products,
    reducing its impact on operating earnings which declined
    $64 million compared to 2007. Also contributing to the
    decline in operating earnings was unfavorable mortality
    experience in the group and individual life businesses,
    unfavorable claims experience in the non-medical health business
    and the resulting impact of the decline in the financial markets
    on separate account balances. Such decreases were partially
    offset by higher earnings in the dental and group term life
    businesses, including the favorable impact on the year over year
    variance of the adoption of new accounting guidance for DAC on
    internal replacements of insurance contracts in the prior year.

100

Table of Contents   

Retirement
    Products  

The unprecedented disruption and dislocation in the global
    financial markets that began in the third quarter of 2008
    negatively impacted many aspects of our business resulting in a
    $696 million decrease in operating earnings, despite new
    sales and deposits which continue to grow consistent with
    expectations.

The largest impact resulting from the challenging market
    conditions was an increase in DAC and DSI amortization of
    $385 million. The acceleration of amortization resulted
    primarily from the decline in the market value of our separate
    account balances, which is directly tied to the financial
    markets. A factor that determines the amount of amortization is
    expected future earnings, which in this annuity business are
    derived, in part, from fees earned on separate account balances.
    In 2008, projection of separate account fees were reduced and as
    a result, we recognized more amortization in the current period.
    The lower market value of our separate account balances also
    resulted in a $96 million decrease in policy fees and other
    revenues. Policy fees from variable investment-type products are
    typically calculated as a percentage of the daily asset balance
    in the policyholder accounts. The value of these assets can
    fluctuate depending on performance of the equity markets.

Also contributing to the decrease in operating earnings was a
    decline in net investment income of $244 million, which was
    primarily due to decreasing yields on our investment portfolio
    and an increased allocation to lower yielding more liquid
    investments in response to the extraordinary market conditions.
    Yields were adversely impacted by the severe downturn in the
    global financial markets which impacted other limited
    partnership interests, and cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments.

Partially offsetting the market-related declines was
    $15 million of lower expenses. A decrease in non-deferrable
    volume related expenses was partially offset by the impact of
    revisions to certain pension and postretirement liabilities in
    2008. The increase in the pension and postretirement liabilities
    was the result of a decline in the value of the assets
    supporting the liabilities. The decline in the asset value is
    also a direct impact of the volatile market conditions.

101

Table of Contents   

Corporate
    Benefit Funding  

Decreasing yields on our other limited partnership interests,
    real estate joint ventures and fixed maturity securities caused
    by the severe downturn in the global financial markets resulted
    in a $495 million decrease in net investment income, and
    was the primary reason for the $297 million decline in
    operating earnings.

As many of our products are interest spread-based, the lower net
    investment income was somewhat offset by lower interest credited
    expense on our investment-type contracts of $276 million.
    In addition, a charge of $75 million related to a liability
    refinement in the pension closeout business and an increase in
    interest credited on future policyholder benefits, which is
    consistent with an aging block of business, contributed to the
    decline in operating earnings. Such declines were partially
    offset by fees earned of $28 million on the surrender of a
    global funding agreement contract in 2008.

102

Table of Contents   

Auto  
    Home  

Significant weather-related catastrophe losses in the second and
    third quarters of 2008 were the primary cause for the
    $63 million decline in operating earnings and resulted in
    an unfavorable change in the combined ratio, including
    catastrophes, to 91.2% in 2008 from 88.4% in 2007. Such losses
    were partially offset by a decrease in non-catastrophe losses
    due to lower severities in the auto line of business, offset
    somewhat by higher frequencies in the homeowners line of
    business, which is reflected in the favorable change in the
    combined ratio, excluding catastrophes, to 83.1% in 2008 from
    86.3% in 2007.

In addition, net investment income decreased by $7 million
    primarily due to decreasing yields, partially offset by growth
    in average invested assets. Yields were adversely impacted by
    the severe downturn in the global financial markets which
    impacted other limited partnership interests and fixed maturity
    securities.

Finally, earned premiums were impacted by a modest increase in
    exposures, a decrease in the cost of reinsurance, and a decline
    in average earned premium per policy.

103

Table of Contents   

International  

The reduction in operating earnings includes the adverse impact
    of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which decreased
    operating earnings by $11 million relative to 2007.
    Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange
    rates, operating earnings decreased by $78 million, or 14%,
    from the comparable 2007 period. This decrease was primarily
    driven by difficult financial market conditions in Japan, which
    adversely impacted investment results and increased DAC
    amortization relative to the prior year, as well as the impact
    of pension reform in Argentina in 2007 and the nationalization
    of this business in 2008, which favorably impacted the prior
    year results relative to the current year. Partially offsetting
    these decreases, the International segment benefited from the
    favorable impact of higher inflation rates on inflation-indexed
    investments in Chile, as well as business growth in the Latin
    America and Asia Pacific regions.

104

Table of Contents   

Banking,
    Corporate   Other  

As a result of the extraordinary market conditions that began in
    late 2008, we experienced decreasing yields on our other limited
    partnership interests and cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments. The decreased yields resulted in a
    $403 million decrease in investment results, despite the
    positive impact of a higher asset base resulting from the
    investment of a portion of the proceeds from debt issuances in
    2008 and late 2007. These lower investment results were the
    primary driver of the $667 million decline in operating
    earnings available to common shareholders as compared to 2007.

Increases in interest expense, corporate expenses and legal
    costs also contributed to the decline in operating earnings
    (loss). Higher interest expense was the result of the various
    debt issuances in 2008 and late 2007. The implementation of our
    Operational Excellence initiative resulted in higher
    postemployment related costs. In addition, corporate support
    expenses, including incentive compensation, rent, advertising,
    and information technology costs, were higher than in 2007.
    Lastly, legal costs were higher due primarily to the commutation
    of three asbestos-related excess insurance policies. The
    increases in these corporate expenses were partially offset by a
    reduction in deferred compensation costs.

Banking results improved operating earnings by $21 million
    primarily due to the acquisitions made by MetLife Bank in 2008.
    See Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Effects
    of Inflation  

The Company does not believe that inflation has had a material
    effect on its consolidated results of operations, except insofar
    as inflation may affect interest rates.

105

Table of Contents   

Inflation in the United States has remained contained and been
    in a general downtrend for an extended period. However, in light
    of recent and ongoing aggressive fiscal and monetary stimulus
    measures by the U.S. federal government and foreign
    governments, it is possible that inflation could increase in the
    future. An increase in inflation could affect our business in
    several ways. During inflationary periods, the value of fixed
    income investments falls which could increase realized and
    unrealized losses. Inflation also increases expenses for labor
    and other materials, potentially putting pressure on
    profitability if such costs can not be passed through in our
    product prices. Inflation could also lead to increased costs for
    losses and loss adjustment expenses in our Auto   Home
    business, which could require us to adjust our pricing to
    reflect our expectations for future inflation. If actual
    inflation exceeds the expectations we use in pricing our
    policies, the profitability of our Auto   Home
    business would be adversely affected. Prolonged and elevated
    inflation could adversely affect the financial markets and the
    economy generally, and dispelling it may require governments to
    pursue a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy, which could
    constrain overall economic activity, inhibit revenue growth and
    reduce the number of attractive investment opportunities.

Investments  

Investment Risks.   The Company s primary
    investment objective is to optimize, net of income tax,
    risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return
    while ensuring that assets and liabilities are managed on a cash
    flow and duration basis. The Company is exposed to four primary
    sources of investment risk:

credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the
    continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of
    principal and interest;

interest rate risk, relating to the market price and cash flow
    variability associated with changes in market interest rates;

liquidity risk, relating to the diminished ability to sell
    certain investments in times of strained market
    conditions; and

market valuation risk, relating to the variability in the
    estimated fair value of investments associated with changes in
    market factors such as credit spreads.

The Company manages risk through in-house fundamental analysis
    of the underlying obligors, issuers, transaction structures and
    real estate properties. The Company also manages credit risk,
    market valuation risk and liquidity risk through industry and
    issuer diversification and asset allocation. For real estate and
    agricultural assets, the Company manages credit risk and market
    valuation risk through geographic, property type and product
    type diversification and asset allocation. The Company manages
    interest rate risk as part of its asset and liability management
    strategies; product design, such as the use of market value
    adjustment features and surrender charges; and proactive
    monitoring and management of certain non-guaranteed elements of
    its products, such as the resetting of credited interest and
    dividend rates for policies that permit such adjustments. The
    Company also uses certain derivative instruments in the
    management of credit and interest rate risks.

Current Environment.   Precipitated by housing
    sector weakness and severe market dislocations, the
    U.S. economy entered its worst post-war recession in
    January 2008. Most economists believe this recession ended
    in third quarter 2009 when positive growth returned. Most
    economists now expect positive growth to continue through 2010.
    However, the expected recovery is weaker than normal, and the
    unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time.
    Although the disruption in the global financial markets has
    moderated, not all global financial markets are functioning
    normally, and many remain reliant upon government intervention
    and liquidity.

As a result of this unprecedented disruption and market
    dislocation, we have experienced both volatility in the
    valuation of certain investments and decreased liquidity in
    certain asset classes. Securities that are less liquid are more
    difficult to value and have fewer opportunities for disposal.
    Even some of our very high quality assets have been more
    illiquid for periods of time as a result of the recent
    challenging market conditions. These market conditions had also
    led to an increase in unrealized losses on fixed maturity and
    equity securities in recent quarters, particularly for
    residential and commercial mortgage-backed, asset-backed and
    corporate fixed maturity securities and within the
    Company s financial services industry fixed maturity and
    equity securities holdings. During 2009,

106

Table of Contents   

unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities
    decreased from improving market conditions, including narrowing
    of credit spreads reflecting an improvement in liquidity.

Investment
    Outlook  

Although we anticipate that the volatility in the equity, credit
    and real estate markets will moderate slightly in 2010, it could
    continue to impact net investment income and the related yields
    on private equity funds, hedge funds and real estate joint
    ventures, included within our other limited partnership
    interests and real estate and real estate joint venture
    portfolios. Further, in light of the current market conditions,
    liquidity will be reinvested in a prudent manner and invested
    according to our ALM discipline in appropriate assets over time.
    Until the additional liquidity is reinvested, the Company will
    have a slightly higher than normal level of short-term
    liquidity. Net investment income may be adversely affected if
    the reinvestment process occurs over an extended period of time
    due to challenging market conditions or asset availability.

107

Table of Contents   

Composition
    of Investment Portfolio and Investment Portfolio
    Results  

The following table illustrates the investment income, net
    investment gains (losses), annualized yields on average ending
    assets and ending carrying value for each of the asset classes
    within the Company s investment portfolio, as well as net
    investment income for the portfolio as a whole:

108

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Yields are based on average of quarterly average asset carrying
    values, excluding recognized and unrealized investment gains
    (losses), and for yield calculation purposes, average of
    quarterly ending assets exclude collateral received from
    counterparties associated with the Company s securities
    lending program. 

(2)  

Fixed maturity securities include $2,384 million,
    $946 million and $779 million at estimated fair value
    related to trading securities at December 31, 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. Fixed maturity securities include
    $400 million, ($193) million and $50 million of
    investment income related to trading securities for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(3)  

Investment income from mortgage loans includes prepayment fees. 

(4)  

Net investment income and net investment gains (losses)
    presented in this yield table vary from the amounts presented in
    the GAAP consolidated statement of operations due to certain
    reclassifications made between net investment income and net
    investment gains (losses) as presented below. 

(5)  

Other invested assets were principally comprised of freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged
    leases. Freestanding derivatives with negative estimated fair
    values were included within other liabilities. As yield is not
    considered a meaningful measure of performance for other
    invested assets it has been excluded from the yield table. 

(6)  

The components of investment gains (losses) for the
     year-to-date 
    ended December 31, 2008, are shown net of a realized gain
    under purchased credit default swaps that offsets losses
    incurred on certain fixed maturity securities. 

(7)  

Derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting is comprised of
    amounts for freestanding derivatives of ($6,624) million,
    $6,072 million and ($59) million; and embedded
    derivatives of $1,758 million, ($2,650) million and
    ($321) million for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. 

See    Consolidated Results of
    Operations   Year Ended December 31, 2009
    compared with the Year Ended December 31, 2008 and Year
    Ended December 31, 2008 compared with the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007,  for an analysis of the period over
    period changes in net investment income and net investment gains
    (losses).

109

Table of Contents   

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

Fixed maturity securities, which consisted principally of
    publicly-traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities,
    were $227.6 billion and $188.3 billion, or 67% and 58%
    of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Publicly-traded
    fixed maturity securities represented $191.4 billion and
    $156.7 billion, or 84% and 83% of total fixed maturity
    securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2009
    and 2008, respectively. Privately placed fixed maturity
    securities represented $36.2 billion and
    $31.6 billion, or 16% and 17% of total fixed maturity
    securities at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2009
    and 2008, respectively.

Equity securities, which consisted principally of
    publicly-traded and privately-held common and preferred stocks,
    including certain perpetual hybrid securities and mutual fund
    interests, were $3.1 billion and $3.2 billion, or 0.9%
    and 1.0% of total cash and invested assets at estimated fair
    value, at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    Publicly-traded equity securities represented $2.1 billion
    and $2.1 billion, or 68% and 66% of total equity securities
    at estimated fair value, at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Privately-held equity securities represented
    $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion, or 32% and 34% of total
    equity securities at estimated fair value, at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

Valuation of Securities.   We are responsible
    for the determination of estimated fair value. The estimated
    fair value of publicly-traded fixed maturity, equity and trading
    securities, as well as short-term securities is determined by
    management after considering one of three primary sources of
    information: quoted market prices in active markets, independent
    pricing services, or independent broker quotations. The number
    of quotes obtained varies by instrument and depends on the
    liquidity of the particular instrument. Generally, we obtain
    prices from multiple pricing services to cover all asset classes
    and obtain multiple prices for certain securities, but
    ultimately utilize the price with the highest placement in the
    fair value hierarchy. Independent pricing services that value
    these instruments use market standard valuation methodologies
    based on inputs that are market observable or can be derived
    principally from or corroborated by observable market data. Such
    observable inputs include benchmarking prices for similar assets
    in active, liquid markets, quoted prices in markets that are not
    active and observable yields and spreads in the market. The
    market standard valuation methodologies utilized include:
    discounted cash flow methodologies, matrix pricing or similar
    techniques. The assumptions and inputs in applying these market
    standard valuation methodologies include, but are not limited
    to, interest rates, credit standing of the issuer or
    counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call
    provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated
    duration, and management s assumptions regarding liquidity
    and estimated future cash flows. When a price is not available
    in the active market or through an independent pricing service,
    management will value the security primarily using independent
    non-binding broker quotations. Independent non-binding broker
    quotations utilize inputs that are not market observable or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data.

Senior management, independent of the trading and investing
    functions, is responsible for the oversight of control systems
    and valuation policies, including reviewing and approving new
    transaction types and markets, for ensuring that observable
    market prices and market-based parameters are used for
    valuation, wherever possible, and for determining that
    judgmental valuation adjustments, if any, are based upon
    established policies and are applied consistently over time. We
    review our valuation methodologies on an ongoing basis and
    ensure that any changes to valuation methodologies are
    justified. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and
    consistent application of input assumptions, valuation
    methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair
    value determination through various controls designed to ensure
    that the financial assets and financial liabilities are
    appropriately valued and represent an exit price. The control
    systems and procedures include, but are not limited to, analysis
    of portfolio returns to corresponding benchmark returns,
    comparing a sample of executed prices of securities sold to the
    fair value estimates, comparing fair value estimates to
    management s knowledge of the current market, reviewing the
    bid/ask spreads to assess activity and ongoing confirmation that
    independent pricing services use, wherever possible,
    market-based parameters for valuation. We determine the
    observability of inputs used in estimated fair values received
    from independent pricing services or brokers by assessing
    whether these inputs can be corroborated by observable market
    data. The Company also follows a formal process to challenge any
    prices received from independent pricing services that are not
    considered representative of estimated fair value. If we
    conclude that prices received from independent pricing services
    are not reflective of market activity or representative of
    estimated fair value, we will seek independent non-binding
    broker quotes or use an internally

110

Table of Contents   

developed valuation to override these prices. Such overrides are
    classified as Level 3. Despite the credit events prevalent
    in the current markets, including market dislocation, volatility
    in valuation of certain investments, and reduced levels of
    liquidity over the past few quarters, our internally developed
    valuations of current estimated fair value, which reflect our
    estimates of liquidity and non- performance risks, compared with
    pricing received from the independent pricing services, did not
    produce material differences for the vast majority of our fixed
    maturity securities portfolio. Our estimates of liquidity and
    non-performance risks are generally based on available market
    evidence and on what other market participants would use. In the
    absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
    used. As a result, we generally continued to use the price
    provided by the independent pricing service under our normal
    pricing protocol and pricing overrides were not material. The
    Company uses the results of this analysis for classifying the
    estimated fair value of these instruments in Level 1, 2 or
    3. For example, we will review the estimated fair values
    received to determine whether corroborating evidence (i.e.,
    similar observable positions and actual trades) will support a
    Level 2 classification in the fair value hierarchy.
    Security prices which cannot be corroborated due to relatively
    less pricing transparency and diminished liquidity will be
    classified as Level 3. Even some of our very high quality
    invested assets have been more illiquid for periods of time as a
    result of the current market conditions.

For privately placed fixed maturity securities, the Company
    determines the estimated fair value generally through matrix
    pricing or discounted cash flow techniques. The discounted cash
    flow valuations rely upon the estimated future cash flows of the
    security, credit spreads of comparable public securities and
    secondary transactions, as well as taking account of, among
    other factors, the credit quality of the issuer and the reduced
    liquidity associated with privately placed debt securities.

The Company has reviewed the significance and observability of
    inputs used in the valuation methodologies to determine the
    appropriate fair value hierarchy level for each of its
    securities. Based on the results of this review and investment
    class analyses, each instrument is categorized as Level 1,
    2 or 3 based on the priority of the inputs to the respective
    valuation methodologies. While prices for certain
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed
    maturity securities, certain foreign government fixed maturity
    securities, exchange-traded common stock and certain short-term
    money market securities have been classified into Level 1
    because of high volumes of trading activity and narrow bid/ask
    spreads, most securities valued by independent pricing services
    have been classified into Level 2 because the significant
    inputs used in pricing these securities are market observable or
    can be corroborated using market observable information. Most
    investment grade privately placed fixed maturity securities have
    been classified within Level 2, while most below investment
    grade or distressed privately placed fixed maturity securities
    have been classified within Level 3. Where estimated fair
    values are determined by independent pricing services or by
    independent non-binding broker quotations that utilize inputs
    that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally
    from or corroborated by observable market data, these
    instruments have been classified as Level 3. Use of
    independent non-binding broker quotations generally indicates
    there is a lack of liquidity or the general lack of transparency
    in the process to develop these price estimates causing them to
    be considered Level 3.

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted new accounting
    guidance that clarified existing guidance regarding
    (1) estimating the estimated fair value of an asset or
    liability if there was a significant decrease in the volume and
    level of trading activity for these assets or liabilities and
    (2) identifying transactions that are not orderly. The
    Company s valuation policies as described above and in
       Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Estimated Fair Values of Investments 
    already incorporated the key concepts from this additional
    guidance, accordingly, this guidance results in no material
    changes in our valuation policies. At April 1, 2009 and at
    each subsequent quarterly period in 2009, we evaluated the
    markets that our fixed maturity and equity securities trade in
    and in our judgment, despite the increased illiquidity discussed
    above, believe none of these fixed maturity and equity
    securities trading markets should be characterized as distressed
    and disorderly. We will continue to re-evaluate and monitor such
    fixed maturity and equity securities trading markets on an
    ongoing basis.

111

Table of Contents   

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities measured at estimated fair
    value on a recurring basis and their corresponding fair value
    pricing sources and fair value hierarchy are as follows:

The composition of fair value pricing sources for and
    significant changes in Level 3 securities at
    December 31, 2009 are as follows:

The majority of the Level 3 fixed maturity and equity
    securities (89.7%, as presented above) were concentrated in four
    sectors: U.S. and foreign corporate securities, ABS and
    RMBS.

112

Table of Contents   

Level 3 fixed maturity securities are priced principally
    through independent broker quotations or market standard
    valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market
    observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated
    by observable market data. Level 3 fixed maturity
    securities consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities
    with very limited trading activity or where less price
    transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation
    methodologies including newly issued agency-backed RMBS yet to
    be priced by independent sources, below investment grade private
    placements and less liquid investment grade corporate securities
    (included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities) and
    less liquid ABS including securities supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans (included in ABS).

During the year ended December 31, 2009, Level 3 fixed
    maturity securities decreased by $218 million, or 1.3%.
    Favorable estimated fair value changes recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) were partially offset by transfers
    out primarily concentrated in foreign corporate securities and
    to a lesser extent net sales and settlements in excess of
    purchases and realized and unrealized losses included in
    earnings. The increase in estimated fair value in fixed maturity
    securities was concentrated in U.S. and foreign corporate
    securities and ABS (including RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans) due to improving market conditions including the
    narrowing of credit spreads reflecting an improvement in
    liquidity, offset slightly by the effect of rising interest
    rates on such securities. The transfers out of Level 3 are
    described in the discussion following the rollforward table
    below. Net sales and settlements in excess of purchases of fixed
    maturity securities were concentrated in U.S. and foreign
    corporate securities. The realized and unrealized losses
    included in earnings were primarily due to OTTI credit losses,
    including OTTI credit losses on perpetual hybrid securities
    included in U.S. and foreign corporate securities.

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for fixed maturity
    securities and equity securities measured at estimated fair
    value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable
    (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31,
    2009 is as follows:

An analysis of transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2009 is as
    follows:

Total gains and losses in earnings and other comprehensive
    income (loss) are calculated assuming transfers in or out of
    Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items
    transferred in and out for the same period are excluded from the
    rollforward.

Total gains and losses for fixed maturity securities included in
    earnings of ($241) million and other comprehensive income
    (loss) of $169 million respectively, were incurred for
    transfers subsequent to their transfer to Level 3, for the
    year ended December 31, 2009.

Net transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 for fixed maturity securities were
    ($1,543) million for the year ended December 31, 2009,
    and was comprised of transfers in of $3,490 million and
    transfers out of ($5,033) million, respectively.

113

Table of Contents   

Overall, transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Level 3 are attributable to a change in the
    observability of inputs. During the year ended December 31,
    2009, fixed maturity securities transfers out of Level 3 of
    $5,033 million resulted primarily from increased
    transparency of both new issuances that subsequent to issuance
    and establishment of trading activity, became priced by pricing
    services and existing issuances that, over time, the Company was
    able to corroborate pricing received from independent pricing
    services with observable inputs, primarily for U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities. During the year ended
    December 31, 2009, fixed maturity securities transfers into
    Level 3 of $3,490 million resulted primarily from
    current market conditions characterized by a lack of trading
    activity, decreased liquidity, fixed maturity securities going
    into default and credit ratings downgrades (e.g., from
    investment grade to below investment grade). These current
    market conditions have resulted in decreased transparency of
    valuations and an increased use of broker quotations and
    unobservable inputs to determine estimated fair value
    principally for U.S. and foreign corporate securities.

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Estimated Fair Value of Investments 
    for further information on the estimates and assumptions that
    affect the amounts reported above.

Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality  
    Ratings.   The Securities Valuation Office of the
    NAIC evaluates the fixed maturity security investments of
    insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment
    purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality
    categories called  NAIC designations.  The NAIC
    ratings are generally similar to the rating agency designations
    of the NRSRO for marketable fixed maturity securities. NAIC
    ratings 1 and 2 include fixed maturity securities generally
    considered investment grade (i.e. rated  Baa3  or
    better by Moody s or rated  BBB  or better by
    S P and Fitch), by such rating organizations. NAIC ratings
    3 through 6 include fixed maturity securities generally
    considered below investment grade (i.e. rated  Ba1  or
    lower by Moody s, or rated  BB+  or lower by
    S P and Fitch), by such rating organizations.

The NAIC adopted a revised rating methodology for non-agency
    RMBS that became effective December 31, 2009. The
    NAIC s objective with the revised rating methodology for
    non-agency RMBS was to increase the accuracy in assessing
    expected losses, and to use the improved assessment to determine
    a more appropriate capital requirement for non-agency RMBS. The
    revised methodology reduces regulatory reliance on rating
    agencies and allows for greater regulatory input into the
    assumptions used to estimate expected losses from non-agency
    RMBS.

The following three tables present information about the
    Company s fixed maturity securities holdings by credit
    quality ratings. Amounts presented for non-agency RMBS,
    including RMBS backed by sub-prime mortgage loans reported
    within ABS, held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 are based on final
    ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodology which became
    effective December 31, 2009. Comparisons between NAIC
    ratings and rating agency designations are published by the
    NAIC. The rating agency designations were based on availability
    of applicable ratings from those rating agencies on the NAIC
    acceptable rating organizations list. If no rating is available
    from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is
    used.

114

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the Company s total fixed
    maturity securities by NRSRO designation and the equivalent
    ratings of the NAIC, as well as the percentage, based on
    estimated fair value, that each designation is comprised of at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, with the exception of
    non-agency RMBS held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2009, which are presented as
    described above:

The following tables present the Company s total fixed
    maturity securities, based on estimated fair value, by sector
    classification and by NRSRO designation and the equivalent
    ratings of the NAIC, that each designation is comprised of at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, with the exception of
    non-agency RMBS held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2009, which are presented as
    described above.

115

Table of Contents   

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale.  
    See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale  
    for tables summarizing the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gains and losses, including noncredit loss component
    of OTTI loss, and estimated fair value of fixed maturity and
    equity securities on a sector basis, and selected information
    about certain fixed maturity securities held by the Company that
    were below investment grade or non-rated, non-income producing,
    credit enhanced by financial guarantor insurers   by
    sector, and the ratings of the financial guarantor insurers
    providing the credit enhancement at December 31, 2009 and
    2008.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity
    Securities).   The Company is not exposed to any
    significant concentrations of credit risk in its equity
    securities portfolio of any single issuer greater than 10% of
    the Company s stockholders  equity at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Summary.  See Note 3 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     Investments  Fixed Maturity Securities
     Available-for-Sale 
    Concentrations  for a summary of the concentrations of
    credit risk related to fixed maturity securities holdings.

Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities.   The
    Company maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed
    maturity securities across industries and issuers. This
    portfolio does not have an exposure to any single issuer in
    excess of 1% of the total investments. See Note 3 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     Investments   Fixed Maturity Securities
     Available-for-Sale 
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity Securities)
    U.S. and Foreign Corporate Securities    for the
    tables that present the major industry types that comprise the
    corporate fixed maturity securities holdings, the largest
    exposure to a single issuer and the combined holdings in the ten
    issuers to which it had the largest exposure at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

116

Table of Contents   

Structured Securities.   The following table
    presents the types and portion rated Aaa/AAA, and portion rated
    NAIC 1 for RMBS and ABS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans, of structured securities the Company held at:

(1)  

Based on rating agency designations, without adjustment for the
    revised NAIC methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009. 

(2)  

Based on rating agency designations and equivalent ratings of
    the NAIC, with the exception of non-agency RMBS (and for
    ABS   including RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans) held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries. Non-agency RMBS (and for ABS   including
    RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans) held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 are included based on
    final ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodology which
    became effective December 31, 2009, which may not
    correspond to rating agency designations. 

RMBS.   See Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements  Investments  
    Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   RMBS  for the tables that present
    the Company s RMBS holdings by security type and risk
    profile at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

The majority of the Company s RMBS were rated Aaa/AAA by
    Moody s, S P or Fitch; and the majority were rated
    NAIC 1 by the NAIC at December 31, 2009 and 2008, as
    presented above. Effective December 31, 2009, the NAIC
    adopted a revised rating methodology for non-agency RMBS based
    on the NAIC s estimate of expected losses from non-agency
    RMBS. The majority of the Company s agency RMBS were
    guaranteed or otherwise supported by the FNMA, the FHLMC or the
    GNMA. Non-agency RMBS includes prime and Alt-A RMBS. Prime
    residential mortgage lending includes the origination of
    residential mortgage loans to the most credit-worthy borrowers
    with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A are a classification of
    mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls
    between prime and
     sub-prime. 
     Sub-prime 
    mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage
    loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. During 2009, the
    major rating agencies made significant revisions to their
    methodologies and loss expectations for non-agency RMBS,
    resulting in significant downgrades for both prime and Alt-A
    RMBS, contributing to the decrease in the percentage of RMBS
    with Aaa/AAA ratings at December 31, 2009 as compared to
    December 31, 2008. Our analysis suggests that rating
    agencies are applying essentially the same default methodology
    to all Alt-A securities regardless of the underlying collateral.
    The Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has superior
    structure to the overall Alt-A market. At December 31, 2009
    and 2008, the Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has no
    exposure to option adjustable rate mortgages ( ARMs )
    and a minimal exposure to hybrid ARMs. The Company s Alt-A
    securities portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed rate
    mortgages which have performed better than both option ARMs and
    hybrid ARMs in the overall Alt-A market. Additionally, 90% and
    83% at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of the
    Company s Alt-A securities portfolio has super senior
    credit enhancement, which typically provides double the credit
    enhancement of a standard Aaa/AAA rated fixed maturity security.
    Based upon the analysis of the Company s exposure to Alt-A

117

Table of Contents   

mortgage loans through its exposure to RMBS, the Company
    continues to expect to receive payments in accordance with the
    contractual terms of the securities that are considered
    temporarily impaired. Any securities where the present value of
    projected future cash flows expected to be collected is less
    than amortized cost are impaired in accordance with our
    impairment policy. See Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements  Investments  
    Fixed Maturity Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    RMBS  for a table that presents the estimated fair value of
    Alt-A securities held by the Company by vintage year, net
    unrealized loss, portion of holdings rated Aa/AA or better by
    Moody s, S P or Fitch, portion rated NAIC 1 by the
    NAIC, and portion of holdings that are backed by fixed rate
    collateral or hybrid ARMs at December 31, 2009 and 2008.
    Vintage year refers to the year of origination and not to the
    year of purchase.

CMBS.   There have been disruptions in the CMBS
    market due to market perceptions that default rates will
    increase in part due to weakness in commercial real estate
    market fundamentals and due in part to relaxed underwriting
    standards by some originators of commercial mortgage loans
    within the more recent vintage years (i.e., 2006 and later).
    These factors have caused a pull-back in market liquidity,
    increased credit spreads and repricing of risk, which has led to
    higher levels of unrealized losses as compared to historical
    levels. However, in 2009 market conditions improved, credit
    spreads narrowed and unrealized losses decreased from 21% to 6%
    of cost or amortized cost from December 31, 2008 to
    December 31, 2009. Based upon the analysis of the
    Company s exposure to CMBS, the Company expects to receive
    payments in accordance with the contractual terms of the
    securities that are considered temporarily impaired. Any
    securities where the present value of projected future cash
    flows expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are
    impaired in accordance with our impairment policy.

The Company s holdings in CMBS were $15.6 billion and
    $12.6 billion, at estimated fair value at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The cost or amortized cost and
    estimated fair value, rating distribution by Moody s,
    S P or Fitch, and holdings by vintage year of such
    securities held by the Company at December 31, 2009 and
    2008. The Company had no exposure to CMBS index securities and
    its holdings of commercial real estate collateralized debt
    obligations securities were $111 million and
    $121 million of estimated fair value at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The weighted average credit
    enhancement of the Company s CMBS holdings was 28% and 26%,
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This credit
    enhancement percentage represents the current weighted average
    estimated percentage of outstanding capital structure
    subordinated to the Company s investment holding that is
    available to absorb losses before the security incurs the first
    dollar of loss of principal. The credit protection does not
    include any equity interest or property value in excess of
    outstanding debt.

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Fixed Maturity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   CMBS  
    for tables that present the Company s holdings of CMBS by
    rating agency designations and by vintage year at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

ABS.   The Company s ABS are diversified
    both by sector and by issuer. See Note 3 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements
     Investments   Fixed Maturity Securities
     Available-for-Sale 
    Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   ABS  for a table that presents the
    Company s ABS by collateral type, portion rated Aaa/AAA and
    portion credit enhanced held by the Company at December 31,
    2009 and 2008.

The slowing U.S. housing market, greater use of affordable
    mortgage products and relaxed underwriting standards for some
    originators of
     sub-prime 
    loans have recently led to higher delinquency and loss rates,
    especially within the 2006 and 2007 vintage years. Vintage year
    refers to the year of origination and not to the year of
    purchase. These factors have caused a pull-back in market
    liquidity and repricing of risk, which has led to higher levels
    of unrealized losses on securities backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans as compared to historical levels. However, in
    2009, market conditions improved, credit spreads narrowed and
    unrealized losses decreased from 39% to 36% of cost or amortized
    cost from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009.
    Based upon the analysis of the Company s
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans through its exposure to ABS, the Company expects
    to receive payments in accordance with the contractual terms of
    the securities that are considered temporarily impaired. Any
    securities where the present value of projected future cash
    flows expected to be collected is less than amortized cost are
    impaired in accordance with our impairment policy.

118

Table of Contents   

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments  Fixed Maturity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    ABS  for tables that present the Company s holdings of
    ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans by rating agency designations and by vintage year
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

The Company had ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans with estimated fair values of $1,044 million
    and $1,142 million, respectively, and unrealized losses of
    $593 million and $730 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Approximately 63%
    of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of which 61% was in
    vintage year 2005 and prior at December 31, 2009.
    Approximately 82% of this portfolio was rated Aa or better, of
    which 82% was in vintage year 2005 and prior at
    December 31, 2008. These older vintages benefit from better
    underwriting, improved enhancement levels and higher residential
    property price appreciation. All of the $1,044 million and
    $1,142 million of ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans were classified as Level 3 fixed maturity
    securities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The
    NAIC rating distribution of the Company s ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans at December 31, 2009 was as follows: 69%
    NAIC 1, 4% NAIC 2 and 27% NAIC 3 through 6. The NAIC rating
    distribution of the Company s ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans at December 31, 2008 was as follows: 87%
    NAIC 1, 12% NAIC 2 and 1% NAIC 3 through 6.

ABS also include collateralized debt obligations backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans at an aggregate cost of $22 million with an
    estimated fair value of $8 million at December 31,
    2009 and an aggregate cost of $20 million with an estimated
    fair value of $10 million at December 31, 2008.

Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment   

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment  for a discussion of the regular evaluation of
     available-for-sale 
    securities holdings in accordance with our impairment policy,
    whereby we evaluate whether such investments are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, new OTTI guidance adopted in 2009 and factors
    considered by security classification in the regular OTTI
    evaluation.

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates. 

Net
    Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)   

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Net Unrealized
    Investment Gains (Losses)  for the components of net
    unrealized investment gains (losses), included in accumulated
    other comprehensive loss and the changes in net unrealized
    investment gains (losses) at December 31, 2009 and 2008 and
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive loss of $859 million,
    includes $126 million related to the transition adjustment,
    $939 million ($857 million, net of DAC) of noncredit
    losses recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009 and
    $206 million of subsequent increases in estimated fair
    value during the year ended December 31, 2009 on such
    securities for which a noncredit loss was previously recognized
    in accumulated other comprehensive loss.

Aging
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments  Aging of Gross
    Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale  
    for the tables that present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss, including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed
    maturity securities recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31, 2009, gross unrealized
    loss as a percentage of cost or amortized cost and number of
    securities for fixed maturity and equity securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

119

Table of Contents   

Concentration
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Concentration of Gross
    Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and Equity
    Securities
     Available-for-Sale  
    for the tables that present the concentration by sector and
    industry of the Company s gross unrealized losses related
    to its fixed maturity and equity securities, including the
    portion of OTTI loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in
    accumulated other comprehensive loss of $10.8 billion and
    $29.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Evaluating
    Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

The following table presents the Company s fixed maturity
    and equity securities with a gross unrealized loss of greater
    than $10 million, the number of securities, total gross
    unrealized loss and percentage of total gross unrealized loss at:

The fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss greater than $10 million, decreased
    $10.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2009.
    These securities were included in the Company s OTTI review
    process. Based upon the Company s current evaluation of
    these securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the
    cause of the decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized
    losses for the year ended December 31, 2009 being primarily
    attributable to improving market conditions, including narrowing
    of credit spreads reflecting an improvement in liquidity and the
    Company s current intentions and assessments (as applicable
    to the type of security) about holding, selling, and any
    requirements to sell these securities, the Company has concluded
    that these securities are not
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

In the Company s impairment review process, the duration
    and severity of an unrealized loss position for equity
    securities is given greater weight and consideration than for
    fixed maturity securities. An extended and severe unrealized
    loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any
    impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled
    interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or
    the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized
    cost based on the present value of the expected future cash
    flows to be collected. In contrast, for an equity security,
    greater weight and consideration is given by the Company to a
    decline in market value and the likelihood such market value
    decline will recover.

The following table presents certain information about the
    Company s equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more at December 31,
    2009:

120

Table of Contents   

In connection with the equity securities impairment review
    process at December 31, 2009, the Company evaluated its
    holdings in non-redeemable preferred stock, particularly those
    of financial services companies. The Company considered several
    factors including whether there has been any deterioration in
    credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of
    non-redeemable preferred stock with a severe or an extended
    unrealized loss. The Company also considered whether any
    non-redeemable preferred stock with an unrealized loss,
    regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend
    payments. No such dividend payments were deferred.

With respect to common stock holdings, the Company considered
    the duration and severity of the unrealized losses for
    securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more and the
    duration of unrealized losses for securities in an unrealized
    loss position of 20% or less in an extended unrealized loss
    position (i.e., 12 months or greater).

Future
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
    issuer performance (including changes in the present value of
    future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit
    rating, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest
    rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals
    and any of the above factors deteriorate, additional
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments may be incurred in upcoming quarters.

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses) Including OTTI Losses Recognized in
    Earnings   

As described more fully in Note 1 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements, effective April 1, 2009,
    the Company adopted new guidance on the recognition and
    presentation of OTTI that amends the methodology to determine
    for fixed maturity securities whether an OTTI exists, and for
    certain fixed maturity securities, changes how OTTI losses that
    are charged to earnings are measured. There was no change in the
    methodology for identification and measurement of OTTI losses
    charged to earnings for impaired equity securities.

Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity
    securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity
    securities net investment gains (losses) are as follows:

(1)  

Other OTTI losses recognized in earnings include impairments on
    equity securities, impairments on perpetual hybrid securities
    classified within fixed maturity securities where the primary
    reason for the impairment was the severity and/or the duration
    of an unrealized loss position and fixed maturity securities
    where there is an intent to sell or it is more likely than not
    that the Company will be required to sell the security before
    recovery of the decline in estimated fair value. 

Overview of Fixed Maturity and Equity Security OTTI Losses
    Recognized in Earnings.   Impairments of fixed
    maturity and equity securities were $1.9 billion,
    $1.7 billion and $97 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairments
    of fixed maturity securities were $1.5 billion,
    $1.3 billion and $78 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Impairments
    of equity securities were $400 million, $430 million
    and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

121

Table of Contents   

The Company s credit-related impairments of fixed maturity
    securities were $1.1 billion, $1.1 billion and
    $58 million for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Company s three largest impairments totaled
    $508 million, $528 million and $19 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

The Company records OTTI losses charged to earnings as
    investment losses and adjusts the cost basis of the fixed
    maturity and equity securities accordingly. The Company does not
    change the revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

The Company sold or disposed of fixed maturity and equity
    securities at a loss that had an estimated fair value of
    $10.2 billion, $29.9 billion and $47.1 billion
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Gross losses excluding impairments for fixed
    maturity and equity securities were $1.2 million,
    $1.8 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Explanations of changes in fixed maturity and equity securities
    impairments are as follows:

Year Ended December 31, 2009 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2008    Overall OTTI losses
    recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities
    were $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009
    as compared to $1.7 billion in the prior year. The stress
    in the global financial markets that caused a significant
    increase in impairments in 2008 as compared to 2007, continued
    into 2009. Significant impairments were incurred in several
    industry sectors in 2009, including the financial services
    industry, but to a lesser degree in the financial services
    industry sector than in 2008. In 2008 certain financial
    institutions entered bankruptcy, entered FDIC receivership or
    received significant government capital infusions causing 2008
    financial services industry impairments to be higher than in
    2009. Of the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of
    $1,900 million in 2009, $799 million were concentrated
    in the Company s financial services industry holdings and
    were comprised of $459 million in impairments on fixed
    maturity securities and $340 million in impairments on
    equity securities, and the $799 million included
    $623 million of perpetual hybrid securities, which were
    comprised of $313 million on securities classified as fixed
    maturity securities and $310 million on securities
    classified as non-redeemable preferred stock. Overall
    impairments in 2009 were higher due to increased fixed maturity
    security impairments across several industry sectors as
    presented in the tables below, which more than offset a
    reduction in impairments in the financial services industry
    sector. Impairments across these several industry sectors
    increased in 2009 due to increased financial restructurings,
    bankruptcy filings, ratings downgrades, collateral deterioration
    or difficult operating environments of the issuers as a result
    of the challenging economic environment. Impairments on
    perpetual hybrid securities in 2009 were a result of
    deterioration in the credit rating of the issuer to below
    investment grade and due to a severe and extended unrealized
    loss position.

Year Ended December 31, 2008 compared to the Year Ended
    December 31, 2007    Overall OTTI losses
    recognized in earnings on fixed maturity and equity securities
    were $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008
    as compared to $97 million in the prior year. The
    significant increase in impairments of fixed maturity and equity
    securities in 2008 compared to 2007 was a result of the stress
    in the global financial markets, particularly in the financial
    services industry causing an increase in financial
    restructurings, bankruptcy filings, ratings downgrades, or
    difficult underlying operating environments for the issuers, as
    well as an increase in the securities that the Company either
    lacked the intent to hold, or due to extensive credit spread
    widening, the Company was uncertain of its intent to hold
    certain fixed maturity securities for a period of time
    sufficient to allow for recovery of the market value decline. Of
    the fixed maturity and equity securities impairments of
    $1.7 billion in 2008, $1,014 million were concentrated
    in the Company s financial services industry securities
    holdings and were comprised of $673 million in impairments
    on fixed maturity securities and $341 million in
    impairments on equity securities, and the $1,014 million
    included impairments of $154 million of perpetual hybrid
    securities, which were comprised of $64 million on
    securities classified as fixed maturity securities and
    $90 million on securities classified as non-redeemable
    preferred stock. A substantial portion of the financial services
    industry impairments were concentrated in the Company s
    holdings in three financial institutions that in 2008 entered
    bankruptcy, entered FDIC receivership or received federal
    government capital infusions - Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
    ( Lehman ), Washington Mutual, Inc. ( Washington
    Mutual ) and American International Group, Inc.
    ( AIG ). Overall, impairments

122

Table of Contents   

related to Lehman, Washington Mutual and AIG in 2008 were
    $606 million comprised of $489 million for fixed
    maturity securities and $117 million for equity securities.
    These three counterparties account for a substantial portion,
    $489 million, of the financial services industry fixed
    maturity security impairments of $673 million; however, at
    $117 million, they do not account for the majority of the
    financial services industry equity security impairments of
    $341 million. As a result of the Company s equity
    securities impairment review process, which included a review of
    the duration and severity of the unrealized loss position of its
    equity securities holdings, additional OTTI charges totaling
    $313 million were recorded in 2008. These additional
    impairments were principally related to impairments on financial
    services industry preferred securities that had either been in
    an unrealized loss position for an extended duration (i.e.,
    12 months or more), or were in a severe unrealized loss
    position. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company not only
    considered the severity and duration of unrealized losses on its
    preferred securities, but placed greater weight and emphasis on
    whether there had been any credit deterioration in the issuer of
    these holdings in accordance with new guidance. As result of the
    economic environment as described above, fixed maturity and
    equity securities impairments on the Company s financial
    services industry holdings and total impairments across all
    industries sectors were higher in 2008 than 2007, as presented
    in the tables below.

Fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings
    relates to the following sectors and industries:

Equity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings relates to
    the following sectors and industries:

123

Table of Contents   

Future Impairments.   Future
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
    issuer performance, changes in credit ratings, changes in
    collateral valuation, changes in interest rates and changes in
    credit spreads. If economic fundamentals and other of the above
    factors deteriorate, additional
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments may be incurred in upcoming periods. See also
       Investments   Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale   
    Net Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses). 

Credit
    Loss Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative
    Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on
    Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the
    OTTI Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive
    Loss   

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Credit Loss
    Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative Credit
    Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on Fixed
    Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the OTTI
    Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive Loss  for the
    table that presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit loss
    component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed maturity
    securities still held by the Company at December 31, 2009
    for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in other
    comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in a securities lending program whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
    securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third
    parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The
    Company generally obtains collateral in an amount equal to 102%
    of the estimated fair value of the loaned securities, which is
    obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level
    greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. In
    limited instances, during the extraordinary market events
    beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and through part of
    2009, we accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception of
    certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated fair
    value of such loaned securities. These loans involved
    U.S. Government Treasury Bills which are considered to have
    limited variation in their estimated fair value during the term
    of the loan. Securities loaned under such transactions may be
    sold or repledged by the transferee. The Company is liable to
    return to its counterparties the cash collateral under its
    control.

Elements of the securities lending program is presented in
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements under    Investments   Securities
    Lending. 

The estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash
    collateral on open at December 31, 2009 has been reduced to
    $3,193 million from $4,986 million at
    December 31, 2008. Of the $3,193 million of estimated
    fair value of the securities related to the cash collateral on
    open at December 31, 2009, $3,012 million were
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities
    which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy
    the cash requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan,
    related to the cash collateral aged less than thirty days to
    ninety days or greater, was primarily U.S. Treasury,
    agency, and government guaranteed securities, and very liquid
    RMBS. The U.S. Treasury securities on loan are primarily
    holdings of
     on-the-run 
    U.S. Treasury securities, the most liquid
    U.S. Treasury securities available. If these high quality
    securities that are on loan are put back to the Company, the
    proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be used
    to satisfy the related cash requirements. The reinvestment
    portfolio acquired with the cash collateral consisted
    principally of fixed maturity securities (including RMBS, ABS,
    U.S. corporate and foreign corporate securities). If the on
    loan securities or the reinvestment portfolio become less
    liquid, the Company has the liquidity resources of most of its
    general account available to meet any potential cash demands
    when securities are put back to the Company.

Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection
    with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or
    repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not
    reflected in the consolidated financial statements.

Invested
    Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as
    Collateral   

The invested assets on deposit, invested assets held in trust
    and invested assets pledged as collateral at December 31,
    2009 and 2008 are presented in a table in Note 3 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
       Investments   Invested Assets on
    Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral. 

124

Table of Contents   

See also    Investments   Securities
    Lending  for the amount of the Company s cash and
    invested assets received from and due back to counterparties
    pursuant to the securities lending program.

Trading
    Securities   

The Company has trading securities to support investment
    strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and
    sale of securities, the execution of short sale agreements and
    asset and liability matching strategies for certain insurance
    products. Trading securities which consisted principally of
    publicly-traded fixed maturity and equity securities, were
    $2.4 billion and $0.9 billion, or 0.7% and 0.3% of
    total cash and invested assets at estimated fair value, at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 3
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
     Investments  Trading Securities  for tables
    which present information about the trading securities, related
    short sale agreement liabilities, investments pledged to secure
    short sale agreement liabilities, net investment income and
    changes in estimated fair value included in net investment
    income at December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

The trading securities and trading (short sale agreement)
    liabilities, measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis and their corresponding fair value hierarchy, are
    presented as follows:

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for trading
    securities measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis
    using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for
    the year ended December 31, 2009, is as follows:

Year Ended 

December 31, 2009 

(In millions) 

Balance, beginning of year

$

175

Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in:

Earnings

16

Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements

(108

)

Transfer in and/or out of Level 3

Balance, end of year

$

83

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates  for further information on the estimates and
    assumptions that affect the amounts reported above.

Mortgage
    Loans   

The Company s mortgage loans are principally collateralized
    by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well
    as automobiles. The carrying value of mortgage loans was
    $50.9 billion and $51.4 billion, or 15.1% and 15.9% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements  Investments  
    Mortgage Loans  for a table that presents the carrying
    value by type of the Company s mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    of $48.2 billion and $49.4 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as well as the
    components of the mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    of $2.7 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

Commercial Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property
    Type.   The Company diversifies its commercial
    mortgage loans by both geographic region and property type. See
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Mortgage
    Loans   Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and
    Property Type  for tables that present the distribution
    across geographic regions and property types for commercial
    mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

125

Table of Contents   

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Restructured,
    Potentially Delinquent, Delinquent or Under
    Foreclosure.   The Company monitors its mortgage
    loan investments on an ongoing basis, including reviewing loans
    that are restructured, potentially delinquent, and delinquent or
    under foreclosure. These loan classifications are consistent
    with those used in industry practice.

The Company defines restructured mortgage loans as loans in
    which the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the
    debtor s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the
    debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company defines
    potentially delinquent loans as loans that, in management s
    opinion, have a high probability of becoming delinquent in the
    near term. The Company defines delinquent mortgage loans,
    consistent with industry practice, as loans in which two or more
    interest or principal payments are past due. The Company defines
    mortgage loans under foreclosure as loans in which foreclosure
    proceedings have formally commenced.

The following table presents the amortized cost and valuation
    allowance (amortized cost is carrying value before valuation
    allowances) for commercial mortgage loans, agricultural mortgage
    loans, and residential and consumer loans
     held-for-investment 
    distributed by loan classification at:

(1)  

The Company diversifies its agricultural mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    by both geographic region and product type. Of the
    $12,255 million of agricultural mortgage loans outstanding
    at December 31, 2009, 54% were subject to rate resets prior
    to maturity. A substantial portion of these loans has been
    successfully renegotiated and remain outstanding to maturity. 

(2)  

Residential and consumer loans consist of primarily residential
    mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, and automobile
    loans
     held-for-investment.  

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring
    Process   Commercial and Agricultural
    Loans.   The Company reviews all commercial
    mortgage loans on an ongoing basis. These reviews may include an
    analysis of the property financial statements and rent roll,
    lease rollover analysis, property inspections, market analysis,

126

Table of Contents   

estimated valuations of the underlying collateral,
     loan-to-value 
    ratios, debt service coverage ratios, and tenant
    creditworthiness. The monitoring process focuses on higher risk
    loans, which include those that are classified as restructured,
    potentially delinquent, delinquent or in foreclosure, as well as
    loans with higher
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and lower debt service coverage ratios. The monitoring
    process for agricultural loans is generally similar, with a
    focus on higher risk loans, including reviews of the portfolio
    on a geographic and sector basis.

Loan-to-value 
    ratios and debt service coverage ratios are common measures in
    the assessment of the quality of commercial mortgage loans.
     Loan-to-value 
    ratios compare the amount of the loan to the estimated fair
    value of the underlying collateral. A loan-to-value ratio
    greater than 100% indicates that the loan amount is greater than
    the collateral value. A
     loan-to-value 
    ratio of less than 100% indicates an excess of collateral value
    over the loan amount. The debt service coverage ratio compares a
    property s net operating income to amounts needed to
    service the principal and interest due under the loan. For
    commercial loans, at December 31, 2009, the average
     loan-to-value 
    ratio was 68%, as compared to 58% at December 31, 2008, and
    the average debt service coverage ratio was 2.2x, as compared to
    1.8x at December 31, 2008. The values utilized in
    calculating these ratios are developed in connection with our
    review of the commercial loan portfolio, and are updated
    routinely, including a periodic quality rating process and an
    evaluation of the estimated fair value of the underlying
    collateral.

Mortgage Loan Credit Quality   Monitoring
    Process   Residential and Consumer
    Loans.   The Company has a conservative residential
    and consumer loan portfolio and does not hold any option ARMs,
     sub-prime, 
    low teaser rate, or loans with a
     loan-to-value 
    ratio of 100% or more. Higher risk loans include those that are
    classified as restructured, potentially delinquent, delinquent
    or in foreclosure, as well as loans with higher
     loan-to-value 
    ratios and interest-only loans. The Company s investment in
    residential junior lien loans and residential loans with a
     loan-to-value 
    ratio of 80% or more was $76 million at December 31,
    2009, and the majority of the higher
     loan-to-value 
    loans have mortgage insurance coverage which reduces the
     loan-to-value 
    ratio to less than 80%. Additionally, the Company s
    investment in traditional residential interest-only loans was
    $323 million at December 31, 2009.

Mortgage Loans Valuation Allowances.   Recent
    economic events causing deteriorating market conditions, low
    levels of liquidity and credit spread widening have all
    adversely impacted the mortgage loan markets. As a result,
    commercial real estate and residential and consumer loan market
    fundamentals, and fundamentals in certain sectors of the
    agricultural loan market, have weakened. The Company expects
    continued pressure on these fundamentals, including but not
    limited to declining rent growth, increased vacancies, rising
    delinquencies and declining property values. These deteriorating
    factors have been considered in the Company s ongoing,
    systematic and comprehensive review of the commercial,
    agricultural and residential and consumer mortgage loan
    portfolios, resulting in higher impairments and valuation
    allowances for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared
    to the prior periods.

The Company s valuation allowances are established both on
    a loan specific basis for those loans considered impaired where
    a property specific or market specific risk has been identified
    that could likely result in a future loss, as well as for pools
    of loans with similar risk characteristics where a property
    specific or market specific risk has not been identified, but
    for which the Company expects to incur a loss. Accordingly, a
    valuation allowance is provided to absorb these estimated
    probable credit losses. The Company records valuation allowances
    and gains and losses from the sale of loans in net investment
    gains (losses).

The Company records valuation allowances for loans considered to
    be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current
    information and events, the Company will be unable to collect
    all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan
    agreement. Based on the facts and circumstances of the
    individual loans being impaired, loan specific valuation
    allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the
    loan over either: (i) the present value of expected future
    cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective
    interest rate; (ii) the estimated fair value of the
    loan s underlying collateral if the loan is in the process
    of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent; or
    (iii) the loan s observable market price.

The Company also establishes valuation allowances for loan
    losses for pools of loans with similar characteristics, such as
    loans based on similar property types or loans with similar
     loan-to-value 
    or similar debt service coverage ratio factors when, based on
    past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred
    and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.

127

Table of Contents   

The determination of the amount of, and additions to, valuation
    allowances is based upon the Company s periodic evaluation
    and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with its
    loan portfolios. Such evaluations and assessments are based upon
    several factors, including the Company s experience for
    loan losses, defaults and loss severity, and loss expectations
    for loans with similar risk characteristics. These evaluations
    and assessments are revised as conditions change and new
    information becomes available. We update our evaluations
    regularly, which can cause the valuation allowances to increase
    or decrease over time as such evaluations are revised, and such
    changes in the valuation allowance are also recorded in net
    investment gains (losses).

The following tables present the changes in valuation allowances
    for commercial, agricultural and residential and consumer loans
     held-for-investment 
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

The following table presents the Company s valuation
    allowances for loans by type of credit loss at:

The Company held $210 million and $220 million in
    mortgage loans which are carried at estimated fair value based
    on the value of the underlying collateral or independent broker
    quotations, if lower, of which $202 million and
    $188 million relate to impaired mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    and $8 million and $32 million to certain mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale, 
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These impaired
    mortgage loans were recorded at estimated fair value and
    represent a nonrecurring fair value measurement. The estimated
    fair value is categorized as Level 3. Included within net
    investment gains (losses) for such impaired mortgage loans were
    net impairments of $93 million and $79 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments   Mortgage Loans 
    for certain information about impaired loans, restructured
    loans, loans 90 days past or more past due, and loans in
    foreclosure at and for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007.

Real
    Estate Holdings   

The Company s real estate holdings consist of commercial
    properties located primarily in the United States. The carrying
    value of the Company s real estate, real estate joint
    ventures and real estate
     held-for-sale 
    was $6.9 billion and $7.6 billion, or 2.0% and 2.4%,
    respectively, of total cash and invested assets at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

128

Table of Contents   

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments  Real Estate
    Holdings  for a table that presents the carrying value of
    the Company s real estate holdings by type at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

The Company diversifies its real estate holdings by both
    geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. The Company s real estate holdings are
    primarily located in the United States. The Company s real
    estate holdings located in California, Florida, New York and
    Texas were 23%, 13%, 11% and 10% at December 31, 2009. See
    Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements  Investments  Real Estate
    Holdings  for a table that presents the property type
    diversification at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

There were no impairments on real estate
     held-for-sale 
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. The Company s carrying value of real estate
     held-for-sale 
    at both December 31, 2009 and 2008 has been reduced by
    impairments recorded prior to 2007 of $1 million.
    Impairments of real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment 
    were $160 million and $20 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no
    impairments of real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment 
    for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company held
    $93 million in cost basis real estate joint ventures which
    were impaired based on the underlying real estate joint venture
    financial statements at December 31, 2009. These real
    estate joint ventures were recorded at estimated fair value and
    represent a non-recurring fair value measurement. The estimated
    fair value was categorized as Level 3. Impairments to
    estimated fair value for such real estate joint ventures of
    $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, were
    recognized within net investment gains (losses) and are included
    in the $160 million of impairments on real estate and real
    estate joint ventures for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that principally make private equity investments in
    companies in the United States and overseas) was
    $5.5 billion and $6.0 billion, or 1.6% and 1.9% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. Included within other limited partnership
    interests were $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 respectively, of investments in
    hedge funds.

The Company held $561 million and $137 million of
    impaired other limited partnership interests which are accounted
    for using the cost basis at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Impairments on cost basis limited partnership
    interests are recognized at estimated fair value determined from
    information provided in the financial statements of the
    underlying other limited partnership interests in the period in
    which the impairment is recognized. Consistent with equity
    securities, greater weight and consideration is given in the
    other limited partnership interests impairment review process,
    to the severity and duration of unrealized losses on such other
    limited partnership interests holdings. Impairments to estimated
    fair value for such other limited partnership interests of
    $354 million, $105 million and $4 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
    were recognized within net investment gains (losses). These
    impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair
    value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due
    to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the
    market for such investments.

Other
    Invested Assets   

The carrying value of other invested assets was
    $12.7 billion and $17.2 billion, or 3.8% and 5.3% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. See Note 3 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements  Investments  
    Other Invested Assets  for a table that presents the
    carrying value of the Company s other invested assets by
    type at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and related supporting
    tables for leveraged leases and MSRs included within other
    invested assets.

Short-term
    Investments   

The carrying value of short-term investments, which include
    investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but
    greater than three months, at the time of acquisition was
    $8.4 billion and $13.9 billion, or 2.5% and 4.3% of
    total cash and invested assets at December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

129

Table of Contents   

Variable
    Interest Entities   

See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for the information concerning variable interest
    entities.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments   

Derivatives.   The Company is exposed to various
    risks relating to its ongoing business operations, including
    interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, credit risk, and
    equity market risk. The Company uses a variety of strategies to
    manage these risks, including the use of derivative instruments.
    See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for a comprehensive description of the nature of the
    Company s derivative instruments, including the strategies
    for which derivatives are used in managing various risks.

See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for information about the notional amount, estimated
    fair value, and primary underlying risk exposure of
    Company s derivative financial instruments, excluding
    embedded derivatives held at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Hedging.   See Note 4 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information about:

The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives and
    non-derivative instruments designated as hedging instruments by
    type of hedge designation at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

The notional amount and estimated fair value of derivatives that
    are not designated or do not qualify as hedging instruments by
    derivative type at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

The statement of operations effects of derivatives in cash flow,
    fair value, or non-qualifying hedge relationships for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007.

See  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk   Management of Market Risk Exposures  
    Hedging Activities  for more information about the
    Company s use of derivatives by major hedge program. See
       Policyholder Liabilities   Variable
    Annuity Guarantees  for information about the
    Company s use of derivatives to hedge variable annuity
    guarantees.

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Derivatives measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:

The valuation of Level 3 derivatives involves the use of
    significant unobservable inputs and generally requires a higher
    degree of management judgment or estimation than the valuations
    of Level 1 and Level 2 derivatives. Although
    Level 3 inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate
    given the circumstances and are assumed to be consistent with
    what other market participants would use when pricing such
    instruments, the use of different inputs or methodologies could
    have a material effect on the estimated fair value of
    Level 3 derivatives and could materially affect net income.

Derivatives categorized as Level 3 at December 31,
    2009 include: interest rate forwards including interest rate
    lock commitments with certain unobservable inputs, including
    pull-through rates; equity variance swaps with unobservable
    volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker
    quotations; foreign currency swaps which are cancelable and
    priced through independent broker quotations; interest rate
    swaps with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion
    of the yield curve; credit default swaps based upon baskets of
    credits having unobservable credit correlations, as well as
    credit default swaps with maturities which extend beyond the

130

Table of Contents   

observable portion of the credit curves and credit default swaps
    priced through independent broker quotes; foreign currency
    forwards priced via independent broker quotations or with
    liquidity adjustments; implied volatility swaps with
    unobservable volatility inputs; equity options with unobservable
    volatility inputs; interest rate caps and floors referencing
    unobservable yield curves
     and/or  which
    include liquidity and volatility adjustments; currency options
    based upon baskets of currencies having unobservable currency
    correlations; and credit forwards having unobservable repurchase
    rates.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, 5.5% and 2.7% of the net
    derivative estimated fair value was priced via independent
    broker quotations.

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for derivatives
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis using
    significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the year
    ended December 31, 2009 is as follows:

During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company s volatility
    inputs for certain of its equity options changed from being
    unobservable to observable, which resulted in the transfer of
    these positions from level 3 to level 2. The
    volatility inputs became observable because the Company began
    utilizing a market data provider that constructs an implied
    volatility surface sourced from transactions executed in the
    marketplace. The value at the beginning of the year of the
    options transferred was $2.0 billion, and the amount
    recorded in earnings in connection with these options for the
    year ended December 31, 2009 was a loss of
    $762 million.

See    Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Derivative Financial Instruments  for
    further information on the estimates and assumptions that affect
    the amounts reported above.

Credit Risk.   See Note 4 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information about how the
    Company manages credit risk related to its freestanding
    derivatives, including the use of master netting agreements and
    collateral arrangements.

Credit Derivatives.   See Note 4 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about
    the estimated fair value and maximum amount at risk related to
    the Company s written credit default swaps.

Embedded Derivatives.   The embedded derivatives
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy, are presented as follows:

131

Table of Contents   

A rollforward of the fair value measurements for net embedded
    derivatives measured at estimated fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs
    is as follows:

The valuation of the Company s guaranteed minimum benefits
    includes an adjustment for the Company s own credit. For
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company
    recognized net investment gains (losses) of
    ($1,932) million and $2,994 million, respectively, in
    connection with this adjustment.

See     Summary of Critical Accounting
    Estimates   Embedded Derivatives  for further
    information on the estimates and assumptions that affect the
    amounts reported above.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business for the purpose of enhancing the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. The
    amounts of these unfunded commitments were $4.1 billion and
    $4.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company anticipates that these amounts will be
    invested in partnerships over the next five years. There are no
    other obligations or liabilities arising from such arrangements
    that are reasonably likely to become material.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain
    residential mortgage loan applications totaling
    $2.7 billion and $8.0 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company intends to sell the
    majority of these originated residential mortgage loans.
    Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will
    be
     held-for-sale 
    are considered derivatives pursuant to the guidance on
    derivatives and hedging, and their estimated fair value and
    notional amounts are included within interest rate forwards.

The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other
    mortgage loan commitments that will be
     held-for-investment. 
    The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $2.2 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

The purpose of the Company s loan program is to enhance the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio. There
    are no other obligations or liabilities arising from such
    arrangements that are reasonably likely to become material.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $1.3 billion and
    $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. There are no other obligations or liabilities
    arising from such arrangements that are reasonably likely to
    become material.

Lease
    Commitments   

The Company, as lessee, has entered into various lease and
    sublease agreements for office space, data processing and other
    equipment. The Company s commitments under such lease
    agreements are included within the

132

Table of Contents   

contractual obligations table. See    Liquidity
    and Capital Resources   The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Contractual
    Obligations. 

Credit
    Facilities, Committed Facilities and Letters of
    Credit   

The Company maintains committed and unsecured credit facilities
    and letters of credit with various financial institutions. See
       Liquidity and Capital Resources  
    The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Credit and Committed Facilities,  for
    further descriptions of such arrangements.

Guarantees   

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities, and other
    indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other
    things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
    provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of
    business, the Company provides indemnifications to
    counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the
    foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as
     third-party 
    lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time
    limitations that vary in duration, including contractual
    limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as
    applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
    potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is
    subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than
    $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum
    of $1.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are
    not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations
    are not subject to limitations, we do not believe that it is
    possible to determine the maximum potential amount that could
    become due under these guarantees in the future. We believe that
    it is unlikely the Company will have to make any material
    payments under these indemnities, guarantees, or commitments.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s interests. Since
    these indemnities are generally not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these indemnities in the future.

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these guarantees in the future.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    reduced $1 million of previously recorded liabilities
    related to certain investment transactions. The Company s
    recorded liabilities were $5 million and $6 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for indemnities,
    guarantees and commitments.

In connection with synthetically created investment
    transactions, the Company writes credit default swap obligations
    that generally require payment of principal outstanding due in
    exchange for the referenced credit obligation. If a credit
    event, as defined by the contract, occurs the Company s
    maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all referenced
    credit obligations is zero, was $3.1 billion at
    December 31, 2009. However, the Company believes that any
    actual future losses will be significantly lower than this
    amount. Additionally, the Company can terminate these contracts
    at any time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an
    amount equal to the then current estimated fair value of the
    credit default swaps. At December 31, 2009, the Company
    would have paid $37 million to terminate all of these
    contracts.

Other
    Commitments   

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut is a member of the
    Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the  FHLB of
    Boston ) and holds $70 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of Boston at both December 31, 2009 and 2008, which is
    included in equity securities. MICC has also entered into
    funding agreements with the FHLB of

133

Table of Contents   

Boston whereby MICC has issued such funding agreements in
    exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston has been
    granted a blanket lien on certain MICC assets, including
    residential mortgage-backed securities, to collateralize
    MICC s obligations under the funding agreements. MICC
    maintains control over these pledged assets, and may use,
    commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of the collateral
    as long as there is no event of default and the remaining
    qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the collateral
    maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MICC, the FHLB
    of Boston s recovery on the collateral is limited to the
    amount of MICC s liability to the FHLB of Boston. The
    amount of the Company s liability for funding agreements
    with the FHLB of Boston was $326 million and
    $526 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. In addition, at December 31, 2008, MICC had
    advances of $300 million from the FHLB of Boston with
    original maturities of less than one year and therefore, such
    advances are included in short-term debt. There were no such
    advances at December 31, 2009. These advances and the
    advances on these funding agreements are collateralized by
    mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $419 million and $1,284 million at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, interest credited on the
    funding agreements, which are included in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, was $6 million,
    $15 million and $34 million, respectively.

Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is a member of the FHLB of
    NY and holds $742 million and $830 million of common
    stock of the FHLB of NY at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, which is included in equity securities. MLIC has
    also entered into funding agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MLIC has issued such funding agreements in exchange for cash and
    for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC
    assets, including residential mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MLIC s obligations under the funding
    agreements. MLIC maintains control over these pledged assets,
    and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of
    the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the
    remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the
    collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC,
    the FHLB of NY s recovery on the collateral is limited to
    the amount of MLIC s liability to the FHLB of NY. The
    amount of the Company s liability for funding agreements
    with the FHLB of NY was $13.7 billion and
    $15.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. The advances on these agreements are collateralized by
    mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $15.1 billion and $17.8 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, interest credited on the
    funding agreements, which are included in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, was $333 million,
    $229 million and $94 million, respectively.

MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds
    $124 million and $89 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of NY at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also
    entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for
    cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket
    lien on certain of MetLife Bank s residential mortgages,
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MetLife Bank s obligations under the
    repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control over these
    pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of
    any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The repurchase
    agreements and the related security agreement represented by
    this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by
    MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the
    amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the outstanding
    repurchase agreements. The amount of MetLife Bank s
    liability for repurchase agreements entered into with the FHLB
    of NY was $2.4 billion and $1.8 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is included
    in long-term debt and short-term debt depending upon the
    original tenor of the advance. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, MetLife Bank received
    advances related to long-term borrowings totaling
    $1.3 billion, $220 million and $390 million,
    respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife Bank made repayments
    to the FHLB of NY of $497 million, $371 million and
    $175 million related to long-term borrowings for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
    advances on the repurchase agreements related to both long-term
    and short-term debt were collateralized by residential
    mortgages, mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities with
    estimated fair values of $5.5 billion and $3.1 billion
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

134

Table of Contents   

Collateral
    for Securities Lending   

The Company has non-cash collateral for securities lending on
    deposit from customers, which cannot be sold or repledged, and
    which has not been recorded on its consolidated balance sheets.
    The amount of this collateral was $6 million and
    $279 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Insolvency
    Assessments  

See Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Policyholder
    Liabilities  

The Company establishes, and carries as liabilities, actuarially
    determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy
    obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured
    dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered
    events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Amounts for
    actuarial liabilities are computed and reported in the
    consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For
    more details on Policyholder Liabilities see
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Summary of
    Critical Accounting Estimates.  Also see Notes 1 and 8
    of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an
    analysis of certain policyholder liabilities at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of
    uncertainty associated with the determination of actuarial
    liabilities, the Company cannot precisely determine the amounts
    that will ultimately be paid with respect to these actuarial
    liabilities, and the ultimate amounts may vary from the
    estimated amounts, particularly when payments may not occur
    until well into the future.

However, we believe our actuarial liabilities for future
    benefits are adequate to cover the ultimate benefits required to
    be paid to policyholders. We periodically review our estimates
    of actuarial liabilities for future benefits and compare them
    with our actual experience. We revise estimates, to the extent
    permitted or required under GAAP, if we determine that future
    expected experience differs from assumptions used in the
    development of actuarial liabilities.

The Company has experienced, and will likely in the future
    experience, catastrophe losses and possibly acts of terrorism,
    and turbulent financial markets that may have an adverse impact
    on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.
    Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including
    pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes,
    explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing
    water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such
    as terrorist attacks. Due to their nature, we cannot predict the
    incidence, timing, severity or amount of losses from
    catastrophes and acts of terrorism, but we make broad use of
    catastrophic and non-catastrophic reinsurance to manage risk
    from these perils.

Future
    Policy Benefits   

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies. Generally, amounts are payable over an
    extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated
    as the present value of expected future benefits to be paid,
    reduced by the present value of expected future net premiums.
    Such liabilities are established based on methods and underlying
    assumptions in accordance with GAAP and applicable actuarial
    standards. Principal assumptions used in the establishment of
    liabilities for future policy benefits include mortality,
    morbidity, policy lapse, renewal, retirement, investment
    returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type. These assumptions
    are established at the time the policy is issued and are
    intended to estimate the experience for the period the policy
    benefits are payable. Utilizing these assumptions, liabilities
    are established on a block of business basis. If experience is
    less favorable than assumed and future losses are projected
    under loss recognition testing, then additional liabilities may
    be required, resulting in a charge to policyholder benefits and
    claims.

Insurance Products.   Future policy benefits are
    comprised mainly of liabilities for disabled lives under
    disability waiver of premium policy provisions, liabilities for
    survivor income benefit insurance, long term care policies,
    active life policies and premium stabilization and other
    contingency liabilities held under participating life insurance
    contracts. In order to manage risk, the Company has often
    reinsured a portion of the mortality risk on new

135

Table of Contents   

individual life insurance policies. The reinsurance programs are
    routinely evaluated and this may result in increases or
    decreases to existing coverage. The Company entered into various
    derivative positions, primarily interest rate swaps and
    swaptions, to mitigate the risk that investment of premiums
    received and reinvestment of maturing assets over the life of
    the policy will be at rates below those assumed in the original
    pricing of these contracts.

Retirement Products.   Future policy benefits
    are comprised mainly of liabilities for life-contingent income
    annuities, supplemental contracts with and without life
    contingencies, liabilities for Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits
    ( GMDBs ) included in certain annuity contracts, and a
    certain portion of guaranteed living benefits. See
       Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

Corporate Benefit Funding.   Liabilities are
    primarily related to structured settlement annuities. There is
    no interest rate crediting flexibility on these liabilities. A
    sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact
    earnings as a result. The Company has various derivative
    positions, primarily interest rate floors and interest rate
    swaps, to mitigate the risks associated with such a scenario.

Auto   Home.   Future policy benefits
    include liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for
    property and casualty insurance and represent the amount
    estimated for claims that have been reported but not settled and
    claims incurred but not reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims
    are estimated based upon assumptions such as rates of claim
    frequencies, levels of severities, inflation, judicial trends,
    legislative changes or regulatory decisions. Assumptions are
    based upon the Company s historical experience and analyses
    of historical development patterns of the relationship of loss
    adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business, and
    consider the effects of current developments, anticipated trends
    and risk management programs, reduced for anticipated salvage
    and subrogation.

International.   Future policy benefits are held
    primarily for immediate annuities in the Latin America region,
    as well as for total return pass-thru provisions included in
    certain universal life and savings products in Latin America,
    and traditional life, endowment and annuity contracts sold in
    various countries in the Asia Pacific region. They also include
    certain liabilities for variable annuity guarantees of minimum
    death benefits, and longevity guarantees sold in the Asia
    Pacific region. Finally, in the EMEI region, they also include
    unearned premium liabilities established for credit insurance
    contracts covering death, disability and involuntary loss of
    employment, as well as a small amount of traditional life and
    endowment contracts. Factors impacting these liabilities include
    sustained periods of lower yields than rates established at
    issue, lower than expected asset reinvestment rates, asset
    default and more rapid improvement of mortality levels than
    anticipated for life contingent immediate annuities. The Company
    mitigates its risks by implementing an asset/liability matching
    policy and through the development of periodic experience
    studies. See    Variable Annuity Guarantees. 

Estimates for the liabilities for unpaid claims and claim
    expenses are reset as actuarial indications change and these
    changes in the liability are reflected in the current results of
    operation as either favorable or unfavorable development of
    prior year losses.

Banking, Corporate   Other.   Future
    policy benefits primarily include liabilities for quota-share
    reinsurance agreements for certain long-term care and
    workers  compensation business written by MICC, a
    subsidiary of the Company, prior to the acquisition of MICC.
    These are run-off businesses that have been included within
    Banking, Corporate   Other since the acquisition of
    MICC.

Policyholder
    Account Balances   

Policyholder account balances are generally equal to the account
    value, which includes accrued interest credited, but exclude the
    impact of any applicable surrender charge that may be incurred
    upon surrender.

Insurance Products.   Policyholder account
    balances are held for death benefit disbursement retained asset
    accounts, universal life policies, the fixed account of variable
    life insurance policies, specialized life insurance products for
    benefit programs, general account universal life policies, and
    the fixed account of variable life insurance policies.
    Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate
    set by the Company, which are influenced by current market
    rates. The majority of the policyholder account balances have a
    guaranteed minimum credited rate between 1.5% and 5.0%. A
    sustained low interest rate environment could negatively impact
    earnings

136

Table of Contents   

as a result of the minimum credited rate guarantees. The Company
    has various derivative positions, primarily interest rate
    floors, to partially mitigate the risks associated with such a
    scenario.

Retirement Products.   Policyholder account
    balances are held for fixed deferred annuities and the fixed
    account portion of variable annuities, for certain income
    annuities, and for certain portions of guaranteed benefits.
    Policyholder account balances are credited interest at a rate
    set by the Company, which are influenced by current market
    rates, and generally have a guaranteed minimum credited rate
    between 1.5% and 4.0%. See    Variable Annuity
    Guarantees. 

Corporate Benefit Funding.   Policyholder
    account balances are comprised of funding agreements. Interest
    crediting rates vary by type of contract, and can be fixed or
    variable. Variable interest crediting rates are generally tied
    to an external index, most commonly
     1-month  or
     3-month 
    LIBOR. MetLife is exposed to interest rate risks, and foreign
    exchange risk when guaranteeing payment of interest and return
    of principal at the contractual maturity date. The Company may
    invest in floating rate assets, or enter into floating rate
    swaps, also tied to external indices, as well as caps to
    mitigate the impact of changes in market interest rates. The
    Company also mitigates its risks by implementing an
    asset/liability matching policy and seeks to hedge all foreign
    currency risk through the use of foreign currency hedges,
    including cross currency swaps.

International.   Policyholder account balances
    are held largely for fixed income retirement and savings plans
    in the Latin America region and to a lesser degree, amounts for
    separate account type funds in certain countries in the Latin
    America, Asia Pacific and EMEI regions that do not meet the
    U.S. GAAP definition of separate accounts. Also included
    are certain liabilities for retirement and savings products sold
    in certain countries in the Asia Pacific region that generally
    are sold with minimum credited rate guarantees. Liabilities for
    guarantees on certain variable annuities in the Asia Pacific
    region are established in accordance with derivatives and
    hedging guidance and are also included within policyholder
    account balances. These liabilities are generally impacted by
    sustained periods of low interest rates, where there are
    interest rate guarantees. The Company mitigates its risks by
    implementing an asset/liability matching policy and by hedging
    its variable annuity guarantees. See    Variable
    Annuity Guarantees. 

Variable
    Annuity Guarantees   

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefits that provide the policyholder a
    minimum return based on their initial deposit (i.e., the benefit
    base) less withdrawals. In some cases the benefit base may be
    increased by additional deposits, bonus amounts, accruals or
    market value resets. These guarantees are accounted for as
    insurance liabilities or as embedded derivatives depending on
    how and when the benefit is paid. Specifically, a guarantee is
    accounted for as an embedded derivative if a guarantee is paid
    without requiring (i) the occurrence of specific insurable
    event or (ii) the policyholder to annuitize. Alternatively,
    a guarantee is accounted for as an insurance liability if the
    guarantee is paid only upon either (i) the occurrence of a
    specific insurable event or (ii) upon annuitization. In
    certain cases, a guarantee may have elements of both an
    insurance liability and an embedded derivative and in such cases
    the guarantee is accounted for under a split of the two models.

The net amount at risk ( NAR ) for guarantees can
    change significantly during periods of sizable and sustained
    shifts in equity market performance, increased equity
    volatility, or changes in interest rates. The NAR disclosed in
    Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements represents management s estimate of the current
    value of the benefits under these guarantees if they were all
    exercised simultaneously at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. However, there are features, such as deferral
    periods and benefits requiring annuitization or death, that
    limit the amount of benefits that will be payable in the near
    future. None of the GMIB guarantees are eligible for a
    guaranteed annuitization prior to 2011.

Guarantees, including portions thereof, accounted for as
    embedded derivatives, are recorded at estimated fair value and
    included in policyholder account balances. Guarantees accounted
    for as embedded derivatives include GMAB, the non
    life-contingent portion of GMWB and the portion of certain GMIB
    that do not require annuitization. For more detail on the
    determination of estimated fair value, see Note 5 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

137

Table of Contents   

The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees
    included in policyholder account balances at:

Included in net investment gains (losses) for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 were gains (losses) of
    $1.8 billion and ($2.7) billion, respectively, in
    embedded derivatives related to the change in estimated fair
    value of the above guarantees. The carrying amount of guarantees
    accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for
    the Company s own credit. In connection with this
    adjustment, gains (losses) of ($1.9) billion and
    $3.0 billion are included in the gains (losses) of
    $1.8 billion and ($2.7) billion in net investment
    gains (losses) for the year ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

The estimated fair value of guarantees accounted for as embedded
    derivatives can change significantly during periods of sizable
    and sustained shifts in equity market performance, equity
    volatility, interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
    Additionally, because the estimated fair value for guarantees
    accounted for at estimated fair value includes an adjustment for
    the Company s own credit, a decrease in the Company s
    credit spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to
    increase. Conversely, a widening of the Company s credit
    spreads could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease.
    The Company uses derivative instruments to mitigate the
    liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net
    income associated with these liabilities. The derivative
    instruments used are primarily equity and treasury futures,
    equity options and variance swaps, and interest rate swaps. The
    change in valuation arising from the Company s own credit
    is not hedged.

The table below presents the estimated fair value of the
    derivatives hedging guarantees accounted for as embedded
    derivatives:

Included in net investment gains (losses) for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 were gains (losses) of
    ($3.7) billion and $3.4 billion related to the change
    in estimated fair value of the above derivatives.

138

Table of Contents   

Guarantees, including portions thereof, have liabilities
    established that are included in future policy benefits.
    Guarantees accounted for in this manner include GMDBs, the
    life-contingent portion of certain GMWB, and the portion of GMIB
    that require annuitization. These liabilities are accrued over
    the life of the contract in proportion to actual and future
    expected policy assessments based on the level of guaranteed
    minimum benefits generated using multiple scenarios of separate
    account returns. The scenarios use best estimate assumptions
    consistent with those used to amortize deferred acquisition
    costs. When current estimates of future benefits exceed those
    previously projected or when current estimates of future
    assessments are lower than those previously projected,
    liabilities will increase, resulting in a current period charge
    to net income. The opposite result occurs when the current
    estimates of future benefits are lower than that previously
    projected or when current estimates of future assessments exceed
    those previously projected. At each reporting period, the
    Company updates the actual amount of business remaining
    in-force, which impacts expected future assessments and the
    projection of estimated future benefits resulting in a current
    period charge or increase to earnings.

The table below contains the carrying value for guarantees
    included in future policy benefits at:

Included in policyholder benefits and claims for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 is a credit of $92 million and for
    the year ended December 31, 2008 is a charge of
    $498 million, related to the respective change in
    liabilities for the above guarantees.

The carrying amount of guarantees accounted for as insurance
    liabilities can change significantly during periods of sizable
    and sustained shifts in equity market performance, increased
    equity volatility, or changes in interest rates. The Company
    uses reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to
    mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility
    of net income associated with these liabilities. Derivative
    instruments used are primarily equity futures, treasury futures
    and interest rate swaps.

Included in policyholder benefits and claims associated with the
    hedging of the guarantees in future policy benefits for the year
    ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were gains (losses) of
    ($114) million and $182 million, respectively, related
    to reinsurance treaties containing embedded derivatives carried
    at estimated fair value and gains (losses) of
    ($376) million and $331 million, respectively, related
    to freestanding derivatives.

While the Company believes that the hedging strategies employed
    for guarantees included in both policyholder account balances
    and in future policy benefits, as well as other management
    actions, have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, the
    Company remains liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event
    that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or
    unwilling to pay. Certain of the Company s reinsurance
    agreements and derivative positions are collateralized and
    derivatives positions are subject to master netting agreements,
    both of which, significantly reduces the exposure to
    counterparty risk. In addition, the Company is subject to the
    risk that hedging and other management procedures prove
    ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or
    mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces
    economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management
    techniques employed. Lastly, because the valuation of the
    guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives includes an
    adjustment for the Company s own credit that is not hedged,
    changes in the Company s own credit may result in
    significant volatility in net income.

139

Table of Contents   

Other
    Policyholder Funds   

Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims,
    unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance,
    policyholder dividends due and unpaid, and policyholder
    dividends left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care
    and dental claims, as well as claims that have been reported but
    not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on the
    Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all claims.
    The Company derives estimates for the development of incurred
    but not reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of
    historical patterns of claims and claims development for each
    line of business. The methods used to determine these estimates
    are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from this
    continuous review process and differences between estimates and
    payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits and
    claims expense in the period in which the estimates are changed
    or payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    deferred acquisition costs. Such amortization is recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees.

Also included in other policyholder funds are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Policyholder
    Dividends Payable   

Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities related
    to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Overview  

Beginning in September 2008, the global financial markets
    experienced unprecedented disruption, adversely affecting the
    business environment in general, as well as financial services
    companies in particular. The U.S. economy entered a
    recession in January 2008 and most economists believe this
    recession ended in the third quarter of 2009 when positive
    growth returned. Most economists now expect positive growth to
    continue through 2010. Conditions in the financial markets have
    materially improved, but financial institutions may have to pay
    higher spreads over benchmark U.S. Treasury securities than
    before the market disruption began. There is still some
    uncertainty as to whether the stressed conditions that prevailed
    during the market disruption could recur, which could affect the
    Company s ability to meet liquidity needs and obtain
    capital.

Liquidity Management.   Based upon the strength
    of its franchise, diversification of its businesses and strong
    financial fundamentals, we continue to believe that the Company
    has ample liquidity to meet business requirements under current
    market conditions and unlikely but reasonably possible stress
    scenarios. The Company s short-term liquidity position
    (cash, and cash equivalents and short-term investments,
    excluding cash collateral received under the Company s
    securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash,
    cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded
    securities and cash collateral received from counterparties in
    connection with derivative instruments) was $11.7 billion
    and $26.7 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. This reduction in short-term liquidity reflects
    the continued improvement in market conditions during the year
    ended December 31, 2009. During 2009, the Company invested
    a portion of its short-term liquidity position in longer term,
    high quality, liquid asset types such as U.S. government
    securities and agency residential mortgage-backed securities. We
    continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital plans
    for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of
    changing needs and opportunities.

140

Table of Contents   

The
    Company  

Liquidity   

Liquidity refers to a company s ability to generate
    adequate amounts of cash to meet its needs. Liquidity needs are
    determined from a rolling
     6-month 
    forecast by portfolio and are monitored daily. Asset mix and
    maturities are adjusted based on the forecast. Cash flow testing
    and stress testing provide additional perspectives on liquidity,
    which include various scenarios of the potential risk of early
    contractholder and policyholder withdrawal. We believe that the
    Company has ample liquidity and capital resources to meet
    business requirements under current market conditions and
    unlikely but reasonably possible stress scenarios under current
    market conditions. The Company includes provisions limiting
    withdrawal rights on many of its products, including general
    account institutional pension products (generally group
    annuities, including funding agreements, and certain deposit
    fund liabilities) sold to employee benefit plan sponsors.
    Certain of these provisions prevent the customer from making
    withdrawals prior to the maturity date of the product.

In the event of significant cash requirements beyond anticipated
    liquidity needs, the Company has various alternatives available
    depending on market conditions and the amount and timing of the
    liquidity need. These options include cash flows from
    operations, the sale of liquid assets, global funding sources
    and various credit facilities.

Under certain stressful market and economic conditions,
    liquidity may deteriorate broadly which could negatively impact
    the Company. If the Company requires significant amounts of cash
    on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements, the
    Company may have difficulty selling investment assets in a
    timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than the Company
    otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. In addition,
    in the event of such forced sale, accounting rules require the
    recognition of a loss for certain securities in an unrealized
    loss position and may require the impairment of other securities
    based upon the Company s ability to hold such securities,
    which may negatively impact the Company s financial
    condition. A disruption in the financial markets could limit the
    Company s access to, or cost of, liquidity.

In extreme circumstances, all general account assets  
    other than those which may have been pledged to a specific
    purpose   within a statutory legal entity are
    available to fund obligations of the general account within that
    legal entity.

Capital   

Capital reflects the financial strength of the Company and its
    ability to generate strong cash flows at the operating
    companies, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise
    additional capital to meet operating and growth needs.

While the Company raised new capital from its debt issuances
    during the difficult market conditions prevailing since the
    second half of 2008 (see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings ), the increase in
    credit spreads experienced since then has resulted in an
    increase in the cost of such new capital. As a result of
    reductions in interest rates, the Company s interest
    expense and dividends on floating rate securities have been
    lower; however, the increase in the Company s credit
    spreads since the second half of 2008 has caused the
    Company s credit facility fees to increase.

The Company manages its capital structure to maintain a level of
    capital needed for  AA  financial strength ratings.
    However, we believe that the rating agencies have recently
    heightened the level of scrutiny that they apply to life
    insurance companies and are considering several other factors,
    in addition to the level of capital, in assigning financial
    strength ratings. The rating agencies may also adjust upward the
    capital and other requirements employed in their models for
    maintenance of certain ratings levels.

Statutory Capital and Dividends.   Our insurance
    subsidiaries have statutory surplus well above levels to meet
    current regulatory requirements.

RBC requirements are used as minimum capital requirements by the
    NAIC and the state insurance departments to identify companies
    that merit regulatory action. RBC is based on a formula
    calculated by applying factors to various asset, premium and
    statutory reserve items. The formula takes into account the risk
    characteristics of the

141

Table of Contents   

insurer, including asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate
    risk and business risk and is calculated on an annual basis. The
    formula is used as an early warning regulatory tool to identify
    possible inadequately capitalized insurers for purposes of
    initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank
    insurers generally. These rules apply to each of the Holding
    Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries. State insurance
    laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require
    various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers
    whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC
    levels. At the date of the most recent annual statutory
    financial statements filed with insurance regulators, the total
    adjusted capital of each of these subsidiaries was in excess of
    each of those RBC levels.

The amount of dividends that our insurance subsidiaries can pay
    to the Holding Company or other parent entities is constrained
    by the amount of surplus we hold to maintain our ratings and
    provide an additional margin for risk protection and invest in
    our businesses. We proactively take actions to maintain capital
    consistent with these ratings objectives, which may include
    adjusting dividend amounts and deploying financial resources
    from internal or external sources of capital. Certain of these
    activities may require regulatory approval.

Rating Agencies.   Rating agencies assign
    insurer financial strength ratings to the Company s
    domestic life insurance subsidiaries and credit ratings to the
    Holding Company and certain of its subsidiaries. The level and
    composition of our regulatory capital at the subsidiary level
    and equity capital of the Company are among the many factors
    considered in determining the Company s insurer financial
    strength and credit ratings. Each agency has its own capital
    adequacy evaluation methodology, and assessments are generally
    based on a combination of factors. We believe that the rating
    agencies have recently heightened the level of scrutiny that
    they apply to insurance companies, and that they may increase
    the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request
    additional information from the companies that they rate, and
    may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in
    the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings
    levels.

The Company s financial strength ratings for its domestic
    life insurance companies are  AA-/Aa3/AA-/A+  for
    S P, Moody s, Fitch, and A.M. Best, respectively.
    The Company s long-term senior debt credit ratings are
      A-/A3/A-/a-  
    for S P, Moody s, Fitch, and A.M. Best,
    respectively. The Company s ratings outlooks are
     CreditWatch negative/stable/stable/Under Review with
    negative implications  for S P, Moody s, Fitch,
    and A.M. Best, respectively. For further discussion, see
     Business   Company Ratings. 

A downgrade in the credit or financial strength (i.e.,
    claims-paying) ratings of the Company or its subsidiaries would
    likely impact the cost and availability of financing for the
    Company and its subsidiaries and result in additional collateral
    requirements or other required payments under certain
    agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by
    posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the
    agreements.

Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   

Cash Flows from Operations.   The Company s
    principal cash inflows from its insurance activities come from
    insurance premiums, annuity considerations and deposit funds. A
    primary liquidity concern with respect to these cash inflows is
    the risk of early contractholder and policyholder withdrawal.
    See    The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Uses   Contractual Obligations. 

Cash Flows from Investments.   The
    Company s principal cash inflows from its investment
    activities come from repayments of principal, proceeds from
    maturities, sales of invested assets and net investment income.
    The primary liquidity concerns with respect to these cash
    inflows are the risk of default by debtors and market
    volatility. The Company closely monitors and manages these risks
    through its credit risk management process.

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities,
    excluding: (i) cash collateral received under the
    Company s securities lending program that has been
    reinvested in cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    publicly-traded securities; (ii) cash collateral received
    from counterparties in connection with derivative instruments;
    (iii) cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
    securities on deposit with regulatory agencies; and
    (iv) securities held in trust in support of collateral
    financing arrangements and pledged in support of debt and
    funding agreements. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
    Company had $139.2 billion and $141.7 billion in
    liquid assets, respectively. For further discussion of

142

Table of Contents   

invested assets on deposit with regulatory agencies, held in
    trust in support of collateral financing arrangements and
    pledged in support of debt and funding agreements, see
       Investments   Invested Assets on
    Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as Collateral. 

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including
    repurchase agreements and commercial paper. Capital is provided
    by a variety of instruments, including medium- and long-term
    debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities
    and equity securities. The diversity of the Company s
    funding sources, including funding that may be available through
    certain economic stabilization programs established by various
    government institutions, enhances flexibility, limits dependence
    on any one source of funds and generally lowers the cost of
    funds. The Company s global funding sources include:

The Holding Company and MetLife Funding, Inc. ( MetLife
    Funding ) each have commercial paper programs supported by
    our $2.85 billion general corporate credit facility.
    MetLife Funding, a subsidiary of MLIC, serves as a centralized
    finance unit for the Company. Pursuant to a support agreement,
    MLIC has agreed to cause MetLife Funding to have a tangible net
    worth of at least one dollar. At both December 31, 2009 and
    2008, MetLife Funding had a tangible net worth of
    $12 million. MetLife Funding raises cash from various
    funding sources and uses the proceeds to extend loans, through
    MetLife Credit Corp., another subsidiary of MLIC, to the Holding
    Company, MLIC and other affiliates. MetLife Funding manages its
    funding sources to enhance the financial flexibility and
    liquidity of MLIC and other affiliated companies. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, MetLife Funding had total
    outstanding liabilities for its commercial paper program,
    including accrued interest payable, of $319 million and
    $414 million, respectively.

The Federal Reserve Bank of New York s Commercial Paper
    Funding Facility ( CPFF ) was initiated in 2008 to
    improve liquidity in short-term funding markets by increasing
    the availability of term commercial paper funding to issuers and
    by providing greater assurance to both issuers and investors
    that firms will be able to rollover their maturing commercial
    paper. MetLife Short Term Funding LLC, the issuer of commercial
    paper under a program supported by funding agreements issued by
    MLIC and MICC, was accepted in October 2008 for the CPFF and
    could issue a maximum amount of $3.8 billion under the
    CPFF. At December 31, 2009, MetLife Short Term Funding LLC
    had no drawdown under its CPFF capacity, compared to
    $1.65 billion at December 31, 2008. MetLife Funding
    was accepted in November 2008 for the CPFF and could issue a
    maximum amount of $1.0 billion under the CPFF. No drawdown
    by MetLife Funding had taken place under this facility at both
    December 31, 2009 and 2008. The CPFF program expired on
    February 1, 2010.

MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window borrowing
    privileges and participate in the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York Term Auction Facility. To utilize these facilities, MetLife
    Bank has pledged qualifying loans and investment securities to
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as collateral. At
    December 31, 2009, MetLife Bank had no liability for
    advances  from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under
    these facilities. At December 31, 2008 MetLife Bank s
    liability for advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of
    New York under these facilities was $950 million, which is
    included in short-term debt. See Note 11 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated  Financial Statements.

As a member of the FHLB of NY, MetLife Bank has entered into
    repurchase agreements with FHLB of NY on both short- and
    long-term bases, with a total liability for repurchase
    agreements with the FHLB of NY of $2.4 billion and
    $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

The Holding Company and MetLife Bank elected to continue to
    participate in the debt guarantee component of the FDIC s
    Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the  FDIC
    Program ). On March 26, 2009, the Holding Company
    issued $397 million of floating-rate senior notes due June
    2012 under the FDIC Program, representing all of MetLife,
    Inc. s capacity under the FDIC Program. MetLife Bank let
    its capacity to issue up to $178 million of guaranteed debt
    under the FDIC Program expire unused when the program ended on
    October 31, 2009.

In addition, the Company had obligations under funding
    agreements with the FHLB of NY of $13.7 billion and
    $15.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, for MLIC and with the FHLB of Boston of
    $326 million and $526 million at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, for MICC. The FHLB of

143

Table of Contents   

Boston had also advanced $300 million to MICC at
    December 31, 2008, which was included in short-term debt.
    There were no such advances at December 31, 2009. See
    Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had outstanding
    $912 million and $2.7 billion in short-term debt,
    respectively, and $13.2 billion and $9.7 billion in
    long-term debt, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and
    2008, the Company had outstanding $5.3 billion and
    $5.2 billion in collateral financing arrangements,
    respectively, and $3.2 billion and $3.8 billion in
    junior subordinated debt, respectively. Short-term and long-term
    debt includes the above-mentioned MetLife Bank funding from the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the FHLB of NY, as well as
    the above-mentioned advances from the FHLB of Boston.

Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.   In July
    2009, the Holding Company issued $500 million of junior
    subordinated debt securities with a final maturity of August
    2069. Interest is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of
    10.75% up to, but not including, August 1, 2039, the
    scheduled redemption date. In the event the debt securities are
    not redeemed on or before the scheduled redemption date,
    interest will accrue at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 7.548%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. In connection with the offering, the Holding Company
    incurred $5 million of issuance costs which have been
    capitalized and included in other assets. These costs are being
    amortized over the term of the securities. See Note 13 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
    description of the terms of the junior subordinated debt
    securities.

In May 2009, the Holding Company issued $1,250 million of
    senior notes due June 1, 2016. The notes bear interest at a
    fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semi-annually. In connection with
    the offering, the Holding Company incurred $6 million of
    issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
    notes.

In March 2009, the Holding Company issued $397 million of
    senior notes due June 2012 under the FDIC Program. The notes
    bear interest at a floating rate equal to
     3-month 
    LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. In connection with the
    offering, the Holding Company incurred $15 million of
    issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
    notes.

In February 2009, the Holding Company remarketed its existing
    $1,035 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B,
    due 2019 payable semi-annually. In August 2008, the Holding
    Company remarketed its existing $1,035 million 4.82%
    Series A junior subordinated debt securities as
    6.817% senior debt securities, Series A, due 2018
    payable semi-annually. The Series A and Series B
    junior subordinated debt securities were originally issued in
    2005 in connection with the common equity units. See
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt
    Securities and Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts. 

In April 2008, MetLife Capital Trust X, a VIE consolidated
    by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust securities
    (the  2008 Trust Securities ) with a face amount
    of $750 million. Interest on the 2008 Trust Securities
    or debt securities is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of
    9.25% up to, but not including, April 8, 2038, the
    scheduled redemption date. In the event the 2008
    Trust Securities or debt securities are not redeemed on or
    before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an
    annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 5.540%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a description of the terms of the
    junior subordinated debt securities.

In December 2007, MetLife Capital Trust IV, a VIE
    consolidated by the Company, issued exchangeable surplus trust
    securities (the  2007 Trust Securities ) with a
    face amount of $700 million and a discount of
    $6 million. Interest on the 2007 Trust Securities or
    debt securities is payable semi-annually at a fixed rate of
    7.875% up to, but not including, December 15, 2037, the
    scheduled redemption date. In the event the 2007
    Trust Securities or debt securities are not redeemed on or
    before the scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue at an
    annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin equal to 3.96%, payable quarterly in
    arrears. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a description of the terms of the
    junior subordinated debt securities.

144

Table of Contents   

Collateral Financing Arrangements.   As
    described more fully in Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements:

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of Charleston s ( MRC )
    reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, entered into an
    agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution that
    referenced the $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of
     35-year 
    surplus notes issued by MRC. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company is entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus
    notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted,
    as described below.

Under this agreement, the Holding Company may also be required
    to pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to any decline in the estimated
    fair value of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be
    accounted for as a receivable and included in other assets on
    the Company s consolidated balance sheets and would not
    reduce the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes.
    Such payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest
    payments due from the Holding Company under the agreement. Any
    payment received from the unaffiliated financial institution
    would reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment
    and would also increase the amount of interest payments due from
    the Holding Company under the agreement. In addition, the
    unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge
    collateral to the Holding Company related to any increase in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. During 2008, the
    Holding Company paid an aggregate of $800 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution relating to declines in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. The Holding Company
    did not receive any payments from the unaffiliated financial
    institution during 2008. During 2009, on a net basis, the
    Holding Company received $375 million from the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair
    value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by
    the Holding Company during 2007. Since the closing of the
    collateral financing arrangement in December 2007, on a net
    basis, the Holding Company has paid $425 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. In addition, at
    December 31, 2008, the Company had pledged collateral with
    an estimated fair value of $230 million to the unaffiliated
    financial institution. At December 31, 2009, the Company
    had no collateral pledged to the unaffiliated third-party in
    connection with this agreement. The Holding Company may also be
    required to make a payment to the unaffiliated financial
    institution in connection with any early termination of this
    agreement.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MetLife
    Reinsurance Company of South Carolina s ( MRSC )
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, entered into
    an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution under
    which the Holding Company is entitled to the return on the
    investment portfolio held by trusts established in connection
    with this collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the
    payment of a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The collateral financing
    agreement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company
    and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary
    of the closing. The Holding Company may also be required to make
    payments to the unaffiliated financial institution, for deposit
    into the trusts, related to any decline in the estimated fair
    value of the assets held by the trusts, as well as amounts
    outstanding upon maturity or early termination of the collateral
    financing arrangement. During 2009 and 2008, the Holding Company
    contributed $360 million and $320 million,
    respectively, as a result of declines in the estimated fair
    value of the assets in the trusts, and cumulatively, since May
    2007, the Holding Company has contributed a total of
    $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair
    value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited
    into the trusts.

In addition, the Holding Company may be required to pledge
    collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this
    agreement. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Holding
    Company had pledged $80 million and $86 million under
    the agreement, respectively.

Remarketing of Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and
    Settlement of Stock Purchase Contracts.   On
    February 17, 2009, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series B portion of the
    junior subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity
    units. The Series B junior subordinated debt securities

145

Table of Contents   

were modified as permitted by their terms to be
    7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due
    February 15, 2019. The Holding Company did not receive any
    proceeds from the remarketing. Most common equity unit holders
    chose to have their junior subordinated debt securities
    remarketed and used the remarketing proceeds to settle their
    payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase
    contract. For those common equity unit holders that elected not
    to participate in the remarketing and elected to use their own
    cash to satisfy the payment obligations under the stock purchase
    contract, the terms of the debt are the same as the remarketed
    debt. The subsequent settlement of the stock purchase contracts
    occurred on February 17, 2009, providing proceeds to the
    Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of
    the Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 24,343,154 shares of its newly issued common
    stock to settle the stock purchase contracts.

On August 15, 2008, the Holding Company closed the
    successful remarketing of the Series A portion of the
    junior subordinated debt securities underlying the common equity
    units. The Series A junior subordinated debt securities
    were modified as permitted by their terms to be
    6.817% senior debt securities, Series A, due
    August 15, 2018. The Holding Company did not receive any
    proceeds from the remarketing. Most common equity unit holders
    chose to have their junior subordinated debt securities
    remarketed and used the remarketing proceeds to settle their
    payment obligations under the applicable stock purchase
    contract. For those common equity unit holders that elected not
    to participate in the remarketing and elected to use their own
    cash to satisfy the payment obligations under the stock purchase
    contract, the terms of the debt are the same as the remarketed
    debt. The initial settlement of the stock purchase contracts
    occurred on August 15, 2008, providing proceeds to the
    Holding Company of $1,035 million in exchange for shares of
    the Holding Company s common stock. The Holding Company
    delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock held in
    treasury at a value of $1,064 million to settle the stock
    purchase contracts.

Other.   On March 2, 2009, the Company sold
    Cova, the parent company of Texas Life, for $130 million in
    cash consideration, excluding $1 million of transaction
    costs. The proceeds of the transaction were paid to the Holding
    Company.

Credit and Committed Facilities.   The Company
    maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed facilities,
    which aggregated $3.2 billion and $12.8 billion,
    respectively, at December 31, 2009. When drawn upon, these
    facilities bear interest at varying rates in accordance with the
    respective agreements.

The unsecured credit facilities are used for general corporate
    purposes. At December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding
    $548 million in letters of credit and no drawdowns against
    these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were
    $2.6 billion at December 31, 2009.

The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of
    the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding
    $4.7 billion in letters of credit and $2.8 billion in
    aggregate drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused
    commitments were $5.4 billion at December 31, 2009.

See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion of these facilities.

We have no reason to believe that our lending counterparties are
    unable to fulfill their respective contractual obligations under
    these facilities. As commitments associated with letters of
    credit and financing arrangements may expire unused, these
    amounts do not necessarily reflect the Company s actual
    future cash funding requirements.

Covenants.   Certain of the Company s debt
    instruments, credit facilities and committed facilities contain
    various administrative, reporting, legal and financial
    covenants. The Company believes it was in compliance with all
    covenants at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Common Stock.   During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 861,586 shares,
    97,515,737 shares and 3,864,894 shares of common stock
    were issued from treasury stock for $46 million,
    $5,221 million and $172 million, respectively. During
    the year ended December 31, 2008, 11,250,000 shares
    were newly issued. There were no newly issued shares during 2007
    and 2009.

On October 8, 2008, the Holding Company issued
    86,250,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $26.50
    per share for gross proceeds of $2.3 billion. Of these
    shares issued, 75,000,000 shares were issued from treasury
    stock, and 11,250,000 were newly issued shares.

146

Table of Contents   

Preferred Stock.   During the year ended
    December 31, 2009, the Holding Company did not issue any
    preferred stock. In December 2008, the Holding Company entered
    into a replacement capital covenant (the  Replacement
    Capital Covenant ) whereby the Company agreed for the
    benefit of holders of one or more series of the Company s
    unsecured long-term indebtedness designated from time to time by
    the Company in accordance with the terms of the Replacement
    Capital Covenant ( Covered Debt ), that the Company
    will not repay, redeem or purchase and will cause its
    subsidiaries not to repay, redeem or purchase, on or before the
    termination of the Replacement Capital Covenant on
    December 31, 2018 (or earlier termination by agreement of
    the holders of Covered Debt or when there is no longer any
    outstanding series of unsecured long-term indebtedness which
    qualifies for designation as  Covered Debt ), the
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, of
    the Company or the 6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B, of the Company, unless such repayment, redemption
    or purchase is made from the proceeds of the issuance of certain
    replacement capital securities and pursuant to the other terms
    and conditions set forth in the Replacement Capital Covenant.

Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   

Debt Repayments.   During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, MetLife Bank made
    repayments of $497 million, $371 million and
    $175 million, respectively, to the FHLB of NY related to
    long-term borrowings. During the years ended December 31,
    2009 and 2008, MetLife Bank made repayments related to
    short-term borrowings of $26.4 billion and
    $4.6 billion, respectively, to the FHLB of NY and
    $21.2 billion and $650 million, respectively, to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York. During the year ended
    December 31, 2009, MICC made repayments of
    $300 million to the FHLB of Boston related to short-term
    borrowings.

Insurance Liabilities.   The Company s
    principal cash outflows primarily relate to the liabilities
    associated with its various life insurance, property and
    casualty, annuity and group pension products, operating expenses
    and income tax, as well as principal and interest on its
    outstanding debt obligations. Liabilities arising from its
    insurance activities primarily relate to benefit payments under
    the aforementioned products, as well as payments for policy
    surrenders, withdrawals and loans. For annuity or deposit type
    products, surrender or lapse product behavior differs somewhat
    by segment. In the Retirement Products segment, which includes
    individual annuities, lapses and surrenders tend to occur in the
    normal course of business. In the year ended December 31,
    2009, both fixed and variable annuities in the Retirement
    Products segment experienced positive net flows and a decline in
    lapse rates. In the CBF segment, which includes pension
    closeouts, bank owned life insurance, other fixed annuity
    contracts, as well as funding agreements and other capital
    market products (including funding agreements with the FHLB of
    NY and the FHLB of Boston), most of the business has fixed
    maturities or fairly predictable surrenders or withdrawals. With
    regard to CBF liabilities that provide customers with limited
    liquidity rights, at December 31, 2009 there were
    $1.7 billion of funding agreements and other capital market
    products that could be put back to the Company after a period of
    notice. Of these liabilities, $1.6 billion were subject to
    notice periods between 15 and 90 days. The remainder of the
    balance was subject to notice periods between 6 and
    13 months. An additional $480 million of CBF
    liabilities were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers
    that permit early termination subject to a notice period of
    90 days. See    The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Uses   Contractual
    Obligations. 

Dividends.   Th e  table below presents
    declaration, record and payment dates, as well as per share and
    aggregate dividend amounts, for the common stock:

Future common stock dividend decisions will be determined by the
    Holding Company s Board of Directors after taking into
    consideration factors such as the Company s current
    earnings, expected medium- and long-term earnings, financial
    condition, regulatory capital position, and applicable
    governmental regulations and policies. Furthermore, the payment
    of dividends and other distributions to the Holding Company by
    its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and
    regulations.

147

Table of Contents   

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Holding Company s Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series A and 6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock,
    Series B is as follows for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

Share Repurchases.   The table below presents
    the common stock repurchase programs authorized by the
    Company s Board of Directors and the aggregate amount and
    number of shares of MetLife, Inc. s common stock purchased
    pursuant to these authorizations:

Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its
    common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open
    market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading
    plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated
    transactions. Future common stock repurchases will be dependent
    upon several factors, including the Company s capital
    position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general
    market conditions and the price of MetLife, Inc. s common
    stock. The Company does not intend to make any purchases under
    the common stock repurchase program in 2010.

148

Table of Contents   

MetLife Bank.   At December 31, 2009, the
    Company held $2,728 million in residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    compared with $2,012 million at December 31, 2008, an
    increase of $716 million. From time to time, MetLife Bank
    has an increased cash need to fund mortgage loans that it
    generally holds for a relatively short period before selling
    them to one of the government-sponsored enterprises such as FNMA
    or FHLMC. To meet these increased funding requirements, as well
    as to increase overall liquidity, MetLife Bank takes advantage
    of collateralized borrowing opportunities with the Federal
    Reserve Bank of New York and the FHLB of NY. For further detail
    on MetLife Bank s use of these funding sources, see
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Global Funding Sources. 

Investment and Other.   Additional cash outflows
    include those related to obligations of securities lending
    activities, investments in real estate, limited partnerships and
    joint ventures, as well as litigation-related liabilities. Also,
    the Company pledges collateral to, and has collateral pledged to
    it by, counterparties under the Company s current
    derivative transactions. With respect to derivative transactions
    with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-notch downgrade
    would have impacted the Company s derivative collateral
    requirements by $146 million at December 31, 2009. In
    addition, the Company has pledged collateral and has had
    collateral pledged to it, and may be required from time to time
    to pledge additional collateral or be entitled to have
    additional collateral pledged to it, in connection with
    collateral financing arrangements related to the reinsurance of
    closed block liabilities and universal life secondary guarantee
    liabilities. See    The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing
    Arrangements. 

Securities Lending.   The Company participates
    in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities,
    which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term
    investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage
    firms and commercial banks, and the Company receives cash
    collateral from the borrower, which must be returned to the
    borrower when the loaned securities are returned to the Company.
    Under the Company s securities lending program, the Company
    was liable for cash collateral under its control of
    $21.5 billion and $23.3 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Of these amounts, $3.3 billion
    and $5.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, were on open terms, meaning that the related
    loaned security could be returned to the Company on the next
    business day upon return of cash collateral. Of the
    $3.2 billion of estimated fair value of the securities
    related to the cash collateral on open terms at
    December 31, 2009, $3.0 billion were
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities
    which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy
    the cash requirements. See
       Investments   Securities
    Lending  for further information.

Other.   In September 2008, in connection with
    the split-off of RGA as described in Note 2 of the Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company received from
    MetLife stockholders 23,093,689 shares of MetLife
    Inc. s common stock with a market value of
    $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a
    net book value of $1,716 million resulting in a loss on
    disposition, including transaction costs, of $458 million.

149

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations.   The following table
    summarizes the Company s major contractual obligations at
    December 31, 2009:

Future policyholder benefits    Future
    policyholder benefits include liabilities related to traditional
    whole life policies, term life policies, pension closeout and
    other group annuity contracts, structured settlements, master
    terminal funding agreements, single premium immediate annuities,
    long-term disability policies, individual disability income
    policies, LTC policies and property and casualty contracts.
    Included within future policyholder benefits are contracts where
    the Company is currently making payments and will continue to do
    so until the occurrence of a specific event such as death, as
    well as those where the timing of a portion of the payments has
    been determined by the contract. Also included are contracts
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death or illness, or where the occurrence of the payment
    triggering event, such as a surrender of a policy or contract,
    is outside the control of the Company. The Company has estimated
    the timing of the cash flows related to these contracts based on
    historical experience, as well as its expectation of future
    payment patterns. 

Liabilities related to accounting conventions, or which are not
    contractually due, such as shadow liabilities, excess interest
    reserves and property and casualty loss adjustment expenses, of
    $498 million have been excluded from amounts presented in
    the table above. 

Amounts presented in the table above, excluding those related to
    property and casualty contracts, represent the estimated cash
    payments for benefits under such contracts including assumptions
    related to the receipt of future premiums and assumptions
    related to mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, inflation, disability incidence, disability
    terminations, policy loans and other contingent events as
    appropriate to the respective product type. Payments for case
    reserve liabilities and incurred but not reported liabilities
    associated with property and casualty contracts of
    $1.5 billion have been included using an estimate of the
    ultimate amount to be settled under the policies based upon
    historical payment patterns. The ultimate amount to be paid
    under property and casualty contracts is not determined until
    the Company reaches a settlement with the claimant, which may
    vary significantly from the liability or contractual obligation
    presented above especially as it relates to incurred but not
    reported liabilities. All estimated cash payments presented in
    the table above are undiscounted as to interest, net of
    estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force and
    gross of any reinsurance recoverable. The more than five years
    category includes estimated payments due for periods extending
    for more than 100 years from the present date. 

150

Table of Contents   

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $310.6 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $135.9 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions, most significantly mortality, between the date the
    liabilities were initially established and the current date. 

For the majority of the Company s insurance operations,
    estimated contractual obligations for future policy benefits and
    policyholder account balance liabilities as presented in the
    table above are derived from the annual asset adequacy analysis
    used to develop actuarial opinions of statutory reserve adequacy
    for state regulatory purposes. These cash flows are materially
    representative of the cash flows under generally accepted
    accounting principles. (See    Policyholder account
    balances  below.) 

Actual cash payments to policyholders may differ significantly
    from the liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance
    sheet and the estimated cash payments as presented in the table
    above due to differences between actual experience and the
    assumptions used in the establishment of these liabilities and
    the estimation of these cash payments. 

Policyholder account balances    Policyholder
    account balances include liabilities related to conventional
    guaranteed interest contracts, guaranteed interest contracts
    associated with formal offering programs, funding agreements,
    individual and group annuities, total control accounts,
    individual and group universal life, variable universal life and
    company-owned life insurance. 

Included within policyholder account balances are contracts
    where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed
    and determinable. These amounts relate to policies where the
    Company is currently making payments and will continue to do so,
    as well as those where the timing of the payments has been
    determined by the contract. Other contracts involve payment
    obligations where the timing of future payments is uncertain and
    where the Company is not currently making payments and will not
    make payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such
    as death, or where the occurrence of the payment triggering
    event, such as a surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy
    or deposit contract, is outside the control of the Company. The
    Company has estimated the timing of the cash flows related to
    these contracts based on historical experience, as well as its
    expectation of future payment patterns. 

Excess interest reserves representing purchase accounting
    adjustments of $565 million have been excluded from amounts
    presented in the table above as they represent an accounting
    convention and not a contractual obligation. 

Amounts presented in the table above represent the estimated
    cash payments to be made to policyholders undiscounted as to
    interest and including assumptions related to the receipt of
    future premiums and deposits; withdrawals, including unscheduled
    or partial withdrawals; policy lapses; surrender charges;
    annuitization; mortality; future interest credited; policy loans
    and other contingent events as appropriate to the respective
    product type. Such estimated cash payments are also presented
    net of estimated future premiums on policies currently in-force
    and gross of any reinsurance recoverable. For obligations
    denominated in foreign currencies, cash payments have been
    estimated using current spot rates. 

The sum of the estimated cash flows shown for all years in the
    table of $198.1 billion exceeds the liability amount of
    $138.7 billion included on the consolidated balance sheet
    principally due to the time value of money, which accounts for
    at least 80% of the difference, as well as differences in
    assumptions between the date the liabilities were initially
    established and the current date. See the comments under
       Future policyholder benefits  above regarding
    the source and uncertainties associated with the estimation of
    the contractual obligations related to future policyholder
    benefits and policyholder account balances. 

Other policyholder liabilities    Other
    policyholder liabilities are comprised of other policyholder
    funds, policyholder dividends payable and the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Amounts included in the table above related
    to these liabilities are as follows: 

a. Other policyholder funds includes liabilities for
    incurred but not reported claims and claims payable on group
    term life, long-term disability, LTC and dental; policyholder
    dividends left on deposit and policyholder dividends due and
    unpaid related primarily to traditional life and group life and
    health; and premiums received in advance. Liabilities related to
    unearned revenue of $2.1 billion have been excluded from
    the cash payments presented in the table above because they
    reflect an accounting convention and not a contractual
    obligation. With the exception of policyholder dividends left on
    deposit, and those     

151

Table of Contents   

items excluded as noted in the preceding sentence, the
    contractual obligation presented in the table above related to
    other policyholder funds is equal to the liability reflected in
    the consolidated balance sheet. Such amounts are reported in the
    less than one year category due to the short-term nature of the
    liabilities. Contractual obligations on policyholder dividends
    left on deposit are projected based on assumptions of
    policyholder withdrawal activity. 

b. Policyholder dividends payable consists of liabilities
    related to dividends payable in the following calendar year on
    participating policies. As such, the contractual obligation
    related to policyholder dividends payable is presented in the
    table above in the less than one year category at the amount of
    the liability presented in the consolidated balance sheets.

c. The nature of the policyholder dividend obligation is
    described in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Because the exact timing and amount of the
    ultimate policyholder dividend obligation is subject to
    significant uncertainty and the amount of the policyholder
    dividend obligation is based upon a long-term projection of the
    performance of the closed block, we have reflected the
    obligation at the amount of the liability, if any, presented in
    the consolidated balance sheet in the more than five years
    category. This was presented to reflect the long-duration of the
    liability and the uncertainty of the ultimate cash payment.

Bank deposits    Bank deposits of
    $10.4 billion exceed the amount on the balance sheet of
    $10.2 billion due to the inclusion of estimated interest
    payments. Liquid deposits, including demand deposit accounts,
    money market accounts and savings accounts, are assumed to
    mature at carrying value within one year. Certificates of
    deposit are assumed to pay all interest and principal at
    maturity. 

Short-term debt, long-term debt, collateral financing
    arrangements and junior subordinated debt securities  
     Amounts presented in the table above for short-term debt,
    long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements and junior
    subordinated debt securities differ from the balances presented
    on the consolidated balance sheet as the amounts presented in
    the table above do not include premiums or discounts upon
    issuance or purchase accounting fair value adjustments. The
    amounts presented above also include interest on such
    obligations as described below. 

Short-term debt consists of borrowings with original maturities
    of less than one year carrying fixed interest rates. The
    contractual obligation for short-term debt presented in the
    table above represents the amounts due upon maturity plus the
    related interest for the period from January 1, 2010
    through maturity. 

Long-term debt bears interest at fixed and variable interest
    rates through their respective maturity dates. Interest on fixed
    rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations
    through maturity. Interest on variable rate debt was computed
    using prevailing rates at December 31, 2009 and, as such,
    does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Long-term
    debt also includes payments under capital lease obligations of
    $4 million, $3 million, $0 and $28 million, in
    the less than one year, one to three years, three to five years
    and more than five years categories, respectively. 

Collateral financing arrangements bear interest at fixed and
    variable interest rates through their respective maturity dates.
    Interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate
    on the obligations through maturity. Interest on variable rate
    debt was computed using prevailing rates at December 31,
    2009 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate
    movements. Pursuant to these collateral financing arrangements,
    the Holding Company may be required to deliver cash or pledge
    collateral to the respective unaffiliated financial
    institutions. See    The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Collateral Financing
    Arrangements.  

Junior subordinated debt securities bear interest at fixed
    interest rates through their respective redemption dates.
    Interest was computed using the stated rates on the obligations
    through the scheduled redemption dates as it is the
    Company s expectation that the debt will be redeemed at
    that time. Inclusion of interest payments on junior subordinated
    debt through the final maturity dates would increase the
    contractual obligation by $4.1 billion. 

Payables for collateral under securities loaned and other
    transactions    The Company has accepted cash
    collateral in connection with securities lending and derivative
    transactions. As the securities lending transactions expire
    within the next year or the timing of the return of the
    collateral is uncertain, the return of the collateral has been
    included in the less than one year category in the table above.
    The Company also holds non-cash collateral, which is not
    reflected as a liability in the consolidated balance sheet, of
    $227 million at December 31, 2009. 

152

Table of Contents   

Commitments to lend funds    The Company commits
    to lend funds under mortgage loans, partnerships, bank credit
    facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments.
    In the table above, the timing of the funding of mortgage loans
    and private corporate bond investments is based on the
    expiration date of the commitment. As it relates to commitments
    to lend funds to partnerships and under bank credit facilities,
    the Company anticipates that these amounts could be invested any
    time over the next five years; however, as the timing of the
    fulfillment of the obligation cannot be predicted, such
    obligations are presented in the less than one year category in
    the table above. Commitments to fund bridge loans are short-term
    obligations and, as a result, are presented in the less than one
    year category in the table above. See
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

Operating leases    As a lessee, the Company has
    various operating leases, primarily for office space.
    Contractual provisions exist that could increase or accelerate
    those lease obligations presented, including various leases with
    early buyouts
     and/or 
    escalation clauses. However, the impact of any such transactions
    would not be material to the Company s financial position
    or results of operations. See    Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements.  

Other    Includes other miscellaneous
    contractual obligations of $15 million not included
    elsewhere in the table above. Other liabilities presented in the
    table above are principally comprised of amounts due under
    reinsurance arrangements, payables related to securities
    purchased but not yet settled, securities sold short, accrued
    interest on debt obligations, estimated fair value of derivative
    obligations, deferred compensation arrangements, guaranty
    liabilities, the estimated fair value of forward stock purchase
    contracts, as well as general accruals and accounts payable due
    under contractual obligations. If the timing of any of the other
    liabilities is sufficiently uncertain, the amounts are included
    within the less than one year category. 

The other liabilities presented in the table above differs from
    the amount presented in the consolidated balance sheet by
    $4.2 billion due primarily to the exclusion of items such
    as legal liabilities, pension and postretirement benefit
    obligations, taxes due other than income tax, unrecognized tax
    benefits and related accrued interest, accrued severance and
    employee incentive compensation and other liabilities such as
    deferred gains and losses. Such items have been excluded from
    the table above as they represent accounting conventions or are
    not liabilities due under contractual obligations. 

The net funded status of the Company s pension and other
    postretirement liabilities included within other liabilities has
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the table above.
    Rather, the amounts presented represent the discretionary
    contributions of $150 million to be made by the Company to
    our pension plan in 2010 and the discretionary contributions of
    $119 million, based on the current year s expected
    gross benefit payments to participants, to be made by the
    Company to the postretirement benefit plans during 2010.
    Virtually all contributions to the pension and postretirement
    benefit plans are made by the insurance subsidiaries of the
    Holding Company with little impact on the Holding Company s
    cash flows. 

Excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits and
    accrued interest of $773 million and $198 million,
    respectively, for which the Company cannot reliably determine
    the timing of payment. Current income tax payable is also
    excluded from the table. 

See also    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.  

Separate account liabilities are excluded from the table above.
    Generally, the separate account owner, rather than the Company,
    bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account
    assets are legally segregated and are not subject to the claims
    that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net
    deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized
    capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are fully
    offset by corresponding amounts credited to contractholders
    whose liability is reflected with the separate account
    liabilities. Separate account liabilities are fully funded by
    cash flows from the separate account assets and are set equal to
    the estimated fair value of separate account assets.

The Company also enters into agreements to purchase goods and
    services in the normal course of business; however, these
    purchase obligations were not material to its consolidated
    results of operations or financial position at December 31,
    2009.

Additionally, the Company has agreements in place for services
    it conducts, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to
    insurance, reinsurance, loans, and capitalization. Intercompany
    transactions have appropriately been eliminated in
    consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance
    subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the
    appropriate departments of insurance as required.

153

Table of Contents   

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company and
    several of its subsidiaries (each, an  Obligor ) are
    parties to various capital support commitments, guarantees and
    contingent reinsurance agreements with certain subsidiaries of
    the Holding Company and a corporation in which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, each
    Obligor, with respect to the applicable entity, has agreed to
    cause such entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels,
    has guaranteed certain contractual obligations or has agreed to
    provide, upon the occurrence of certain contingencies,
    reinsurance for such entity s insurance liabilities. We
    anticipate that in the event that these arrangements place
    demands upon the Company, there will be sufficient liquidity and
    capital to enable the Company to meet anticipated demands. See
       The Holding Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Uses   Support Agreements. 

Litigation.   Putative or certified class action
    litigation and other litigation, and claims and assessments
    against the Company, in addition to those discussed elsewhere
    herein and those otherwise provided for in the Company s
    consolidated financial statements, have arisen in the course of
    the Company s business, including, but not limited to, in
    connection with its activities as an insurer, employer,
    investor, investment advisor and taxpayer. Further, state
    insurance regulatory authorities and other federal and state
    authorities regularly make inquiries and conduct investigations
    concerning the Company s compliance with applicable
    insurance and other laws and regulations.

It is not possible to predict or determine the ultimate outcome
    of all pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses except as noted elsewhere
    herein in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to herein, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations, it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcome of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Consolidated Cash Flows.   Net cash provided by
    operating activities was $3.8 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 as compared to $10.7 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, net cash
    provided by operating activities decreased by $6.9 billion
    for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the
    year ended December 31, 2008. Cash flows from operations
    represent the net income (loss) adjusted for non-cash earnings
    items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net loss
    for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $2.3 billion
    as compared to net income of $3.3 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, the decrease in
    earnings of $5.6 billion accounted for most of the
    $6.9 billion decrease in net cash provided by operating
    activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared
    to the year ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the change
    in earnings, the Company s net cash provided by operating
    activities was $6.1 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 compared with $7.4 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2008. The net cash generated from
    operating activities is used to meet the Company s
    liquidity needs, such as debt and dividend payments, and
    provides cash available for investing activities. Cash flows
    from operations are affected by the timing of receipt of
    premiums and other revenues, as well as the payment of the
    Company s insurance liabilities.

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by
    $0.8 billion to $10.7 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 as compared to $9.9 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2007.

Net cash used in financing activities was $4.1 billion for
    the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to net cash
    provided by financing activities of $6.2 billion for the
    year ended December 31, 2008. Accordingly, net cash
    provided by (used in) financing activities decreased by
    $10.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009 as
    compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. During 2009
    and 2008, the Company reduced securities lending activities in
    line with market conditions, which resulted in decreases in the
    cash collateral received in connection with the securities
    lending program of $1.6 billion and $20.0 billion for
    the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    The Company also experienced a $5.1 billion decrease in
    cash collateral received under derivatives transactions for the
    year ended December 31, 2009 compared to an increase of
    $6.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. The
    cash collateral received under derivatives transactions is
    invested in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
    Additionally, net cash flows from policyholder account balances
    decreased

154

Table of Contents   

by $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009
    compared to a net increase of $13.6 billion during the year
    ended December 31, 2008, primarily as a result of
    unfavorable market conditions for the issuance of funding
    agreements and funding agreement-backed notes during most of the
    period. During the year ended December 31, 2009, there was
    a net issuance of long-term and junior subordinated debt of
    $2.9 billion compared to a net issuance of
    $667 million in the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Finally, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the
    Company had a net increase in cash from the issuance of common
    stock of $1.0 billion as compared to a $2.0 billion
    net increase during the year ended December 31, 2008.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $6.2 billion
    and $3.9 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities increased by $2.3 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the prior year. In
    2008 the Company reduced securities lending activities in line
    with market conditions, which resulted in a decrease of
    $20.0 billion in the cash collateral received in connection
    with the securities lending program. Partially offsetting this
    decrease was a net increase of $15.8 billion in
    policyholder account balances, which primarily reflected the
    Company s increased level of funding agreements with the
    FHLB of NY and with MetLife Short Term Funding LLC, an issuer of
    commercial paper. The Company also experienced a
    $6.9 billion increase in cash collateral received under
    derivatives transactions, primarily as a result of the
    improvement in estimated fair value of the derivatives. The cash
    collateral received under derivatives transactions is invested
    in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, which
    partly explains the major increase in this category of liquid
    assets. The Company increased short-term debt by
    $2.0 billion in 2008 compared with a decrease of
    $0.8 billion in 2007, which primarily reflected new
    activity at MetLife Bank, which borrowed $1.0 billion from
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under the Term Auction
    Facility and entered into $0.7 billion of short-term
    borrowing from the FHLB of NY in order to fund residential
    mortgage origination operations acquired by the Company in 2008
    and provide a cost effective substitute for cash collateral
    received in connection with securities lending. In 2008 the net
    cash paid related to collateral financing arrangements was
    $0.5 billion resulting from payments made by the Holding
    Company to an unaffiliated financial institution in connection
    with the collateral financing arrangement associated with
    MRC s reinsurance of the closed block liabilities, which
    compares to $4.9 billion of cash provided by collateral
    financing arrangement transactions completed in 2007, as market
    conditions in 2008 reduced the availability and attractiveness
    of such financing. In 2008, there was a net issuance of
    $0.7 billion of long-term debt and junior subordinated debt
    securities, compared to a net issuance in 2007 of
    $1.1 billion. Finally, in order to strengthen its capital
    base, in 2008 the Company reduced its level of common stock
    repurchase activity by $0.5 billion compared with 2007
    repurchasing only $1.3 billion of common stock in 2008 as
    compared to $1.8 billion in 2007, and issued
    $3.3 billion of stock compared with no issuance in 2007.
    The Company also paid dividends on the preferred stock and
    common stock of $0.7 billion, which was comparable to the
    dividends paid in 2007.

Net cash used in investing activities was $13.9 billion for
    the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to
    $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. The
    net cash used in investing activities in the year ended
    December 31, 2009 corresponded with a net decrease of
    $14.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents in the same
    period, reflecting the Company s effort to redeploy the
    elevated level of cash and cash equivalents accumulated at year
    end 2008 in response to extraordinary market conditions. The net
    cash used in investing activities in the year ended
    December 31, 2009 was primarily composed of net purchases
    of $19.5 billion of fixed maturity securities, partially
    offset by a net reduction of $5.5 billion in short-term
    investments. In the comparable 2008 period, there were net sales
    of $15.4 billion of fixed maturity securities, offset by
    net purchases of $4.0 billion in mortgage loans and net
    purchases of short-term investments of $11.3 billion, while
    cash and cash equivalents increased by $13.9 billion.

Net cash used in investing activities was $2.7 billion and
    $10.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008
    and 2007, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing
    activities decreased by $7.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 as compared to the prior year. The
    Company reduced the level of cash available for investing
    activities in 2008 in order to significantly increase cash and
    cash equivalents as a liquidity cushion in response to the
    deterioration in the financial markets in 2008. Cash and cash
    equivalents increased $13.9 billion at December 31,
    2008 compared to the prior year. The net decrease in the amount
    of cash used in investing activities was primarily reflected in
    a decrease in net purchases of fixed maturity and equity
    securities of $15.8 billion and $2.4 billion,
    respectively, as well as a decrease in the net purchases of real
    estate and real estate joint ventures of $0.5 billion, a
    decrease in other invested assets of $0.5 billion and a
    decrease of $0.5 billion in the net origination of mortgage
    loans. In addition, the 2007 period included the sale of MetLife
    Australia s annuities and pension businesses of
    $0.7 billion. These decreases

155

Table of Contents   

in net cash used in investing activities were partially offset
    by an increase in cash invested in short-term investments of
    $11.3 billion due to a repositioning from other investment
    classes due to volatile market conditions, an increase in net
    purchases of other limited partnership interests of
    $0.1 billion and an increase in policy loans of
    $0.3 billion. In addition, the 2008 period includes an
    increase of $0.4 billion of cash used to purchase
    businesses and the decrease of $0.3 billion of cash held by
    a subsidiary, which was split-off from the Company.

The
    Holding Company  

Capital   

Restrictions and Limitations on Bank Holding Companies and
    Financial Holding Companies.   The Holding Company
    and its insured depository institution subsidiary, MetLife Bank,
    are subject to risk-based and leverage capital guidelines issued
    by the federal banking regulatory agencies for banks and
    financial holding companies. The federal banking regulatory
    agencies are required by law to take specific prompt corrective
    actions with respect to institutions that do not meet minimum
    capital standards. At their most recently filed reports with the
    federal banking regulatory agencies, the Holding Company and
    MetLife Bank met the minimum capital standards as per federal
    banking regulatory agencies with all of MetLife Bank s
    risk-based and leverage capital ratios meeting the federal
    banking regulatory agencies  well capitalized 
    standards and all of the Holding Company s risk-based and
    leverage capital ratios meeting the  adequately
    capitalized  standards.

The following table contains the RBC ratios and the regulatory
    requirements for MetLife, Inc., as a bank holding company, and
    MetLife Bank:

MetLife,
    Inc. 
    RBC Ratios   Bank Holding Company  

MetLife
    Bank 
    RBC Ratios   Bank  

Liquidity
    and Capital   

Liquidity and capital are managed to preserve stable, reliable
    and cost-effective sources of cash to meet all current and
    future financial obligations and are provided by a variety of
    sources, including a portfolio of liquid assets, a diversified
    mix of short- and long-term funding sources from the wholesale
    financial markets and the ability to borrow through committed
    credit facilities. The Holding Company is an active participant
    in the global financial markets through which it obtains a
    significant amount of funding. These markets, which serve as
    cost-effective sources of funds, are critical components of the
    Holding Company s liquidity and capital management.
    Decisions to access these markets are based upon relative costs,
    prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted
    liquidity profile and capital structure. A disruption in the
    financial markets could limit the Holding Company s access
    to liquidity.

The Holding Company s ability to maintain regular access to
    competitively priced wholesale funds is fostered by its current
    high credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies. We
    view our capital ratios, credit quality,

156

Table of Contents   

stable and diverse earnings streams, diversity of liquidity
    sources and our liquidity monitoring procedures as critical to
    retaining high credit ratings. See    The
    Company   Capital   Rating Agencies. 

Liquidity is monitored through the use of internal liquidity
    risk metrics, including the composition and level of the liquid
    asset portfolio, timing differences in short-term cash flow
    obligations, access to the financial markets for capital and
    debt transactions and exposure to contingent draws on the
    Holding Company s liquidity.

Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   

Dividends from Subsidiaries.   The Holding
    Company relies in part on dividends from its subsidiaries to
    meet its cash requirements. The Holding Company s insurance
    subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions on the
    payment of dividends imposed by the regulators of their
    respective domiciles. The dividend limitation for
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries is generally based on the
    surplus to policyholders at the immediately preceding calendar
    year and statutory net gain from operations for the immediately
    preceding calendar year. Statutory accounting practices, as
    prescribed by insurance regulators of various states in which
    the Company conducts business, differ in certain respects from
    accounting principles used in financial statements prepared in
    conformity with GAAP. The significant differences relate to the
    treatment of DAC, certain deferred income tax, required
    investment liabilities, statutory reserve calculation
    assumptions, goodwill and surplus notes. Management of the
    Holding Company cannot provide assurances that the Holding
    Company s insurance subsidiaries will have statutory
    earnings to support payment of dividends to the Holding Company
    in an amount sufficient to fund its cash requirements and pay
    cash dividends and that the applicable insurance departments
    will not disapprove any dividends that such insurance
    subsidiaries must submit for approval. See Note 18 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2010 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified
    date during 2010, some or all of such dividends may require
    regulatory approval. 

(2)  

Includes amounts paid including those requiring regulatory
    approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

Consists of shares of RGA stock distributed by Metropolitan Life
    Insurance Company to the Holding Company as an in-kind dividend
    of $1,318 million. 

(5)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend of $164 million. 

(6)  

Includes a return of capital of $404 million as approved by
    the applicable insurance department, of which $350 million
    was paid to the Holding Company. 

In the fourth quarter of 2008, MICC declared and paid an
    ordinary dividend of $500 million to the Holding Company.
    In the third quarter of 2008, MLIC used its otherwise ordinary
    dividend capacity through an in-kind dividend in conjunction
    with the RGA split-off as approved by the New York Insurance
    Commissioner.

157

Table of Contents   

In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the
    years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, cash dividends in
    the amount of $215 million and $235 million,
    respectively, were paid to the Holding Company. For the year
    ended December 31, 2007, $190 million in dividends
    were paid to the Holding Company, of which $176 million
    were returns of capital.

Liquid Assets.   An integral part of the Holding
    Company s liquidity management is the amount of liquid
    assets it holds. Liquid assets include cash, cash equivalents,
    short-term investments and publicly-traded securities. Liquid
    assets exclude cash collateral received under the Company s
    securities lending program that has been reinvested in cash,
    cash equivalents, short-term investments and publicly-traded
    securities. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Holding
    Company had $3.8 billion and $2.7 billion in liquid
    assets, respectively. In addition, the Holding Company has
    pledged collateral and has had collateral pledged to it, and may
    be required from time to time to pledge additional collateral or
    be entitled to have additional collateral pledged to it. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Holding Company had pledged
    $289 million and $820 million, respectively, of liquid
    assets under collateral support agreements.

Global Funding Sources.   Liquidity is also
    provided by a variety of short-term instruments, including
    commercial paper. Capital is provided by a variety of
    instruments, including medium- and long-term debt, junior
    subordinated debt securities, collateral financing arrangements,
    capital securities and stockholders  equity. The diversity
    of the Holding Company s funding sources enhances funding
    flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of funds and
    generally lowers the cost of funds. Other sources of the Holding
    Company s liquidity include programs for short-and
    long-term borrowing, as needed.

We continuously monitor and adjust our liquidity and capital
    plans for the Holding Company and its subsidiaries in light of
    changing requirements and market conditions.

The following table summarizes the amounts outstanding under
    various types of global funding sources available to the Holding
    Company at:

In November 2007, the Holding Company filed a shelf registration
    statement (the  2007 Registration Statement ) with the
    SEC, which was automatically effective upon filing, in
    accordance with SEC rules. SEC rules also allow for
    pay-as-you-go fees and the ability to add securities by filing
    automatically effective amendment for companies, such as the
    Holding Company, which qualify as  Well-Known Seasoned
    Issuers.  The 2007 Registration Statement registered an
    unlimited amount of debt and equity securities and supersedes
    the shelf registration statement that the Holding Company filed
    in April 2005. The terms of any offering will be established at
    the time of the offering.

Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings.   For
    information on debt issuances and other borrowings entered into
    by the Holding Company, see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Debt Issuances and Other Borrowings. 

Collateral Financing Arrangements.   For
    information on collateral financing arrangements entered into by
    the Holding Company, see    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Collateral Financing Arrangements. 

158

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the Holding Company s
    outstanding senior notes series by maturity date, excluding any
    premium or discount, at December 31, 2009:

Credit and Committed Facilities.   In 2007, the
    Holding Company and MetLife Funding entered into a credit
    agreement with various financial institutions. The proceeds of
    this $2.85 billion unsecured credit facility, as amended in
    2008, are available to be used for general corporate purposes,
    as  back-up 
    for their commercial paper programs and for the issuance of
    letters of credit. At December 31, 2009, the Holding
    Company had outstanding $548 million in letters of credit
    and no drawdowns against this facility. Remaining unused
    commitments were $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009.

The Holding Company maintains committed facilities with a
    capacity of $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2009, the
    Holding Company had outstanding $712 million in letters of
    credit and no aggregate drawdowns against these facilities.
    Remaining unused commitments were $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2009. In addition, the Holding Company is a
    party to committed facilities of certain of its subsidiaries,
    which aggregated $11.0 billion at December 31, 2009.
    The committed facilities are used for collateral for certain of
    the Company s affiliated reinsurance liabilities.

For more information on Credit and Committed Facilities see
    Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Covenants.   Certain of the Holding
    Company s debt instruments, credit facilities and committed
    facilities contain various administrative, reporting, legal and
    financial covenants. The Holding Company believes it was in
    compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Common and Preferred Stock.   For information on
    Common Stock and Preferred Stock issued by the Holding Company,
    see    The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Common Stock  and
       The Company   Liquidity and Capital
    Sources   Preferred Stock. 

Liquidity
    and Capital Uses   

The primary uses of liquidity of the Holding Company include
    debt service, cash dividends on common and preferred stock,
    capital contributions to subsidiaries, payment of general
    operating expenses, acquisitions and the repurchase of the
    Holding Company s common stock.

Affiliated Capital Transactions.   During the
    years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Holding Company
    invested an aggregate of $986 million and
    $2.6 billion, respectively, in various subsidiaries.

159

Table of Contents   

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

Debt Repayments.   None of the Holding
    Company s debt is due before December 2011, so there is no
    near-term debt refinancing risk.

Support Agreements.   The Holding Company is
    party to various capital support commitments and guarantees with
    certain of its subsidiaries and a corporation in which it owns
    50% of the equity. Under these arrangements, the Holding Company
    has agreed to cause each such entity to meet specified capital
    and surplus levels or has guaranteed certain contractual
    obligations.

In December 2009, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life
    insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take
    necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV to
    maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of
    such protected cell s authorized control level RBC, as
    defined in state insurance statutes. See    The
    Company   Liquidity and Capital Sources  
    Credit and Committed Facilities  and Note 11 of the
    Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In October 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life
    insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take
    necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected
    cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or
    greater than 200% of such protected cell s authorized
    control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.
    See     The Company   Liquidity
    and Capital Sources   Credit and Committed
    Facilities  and Note 11 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the
    closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so
    that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at
    a level of not less than 200% of the company action
    level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in
    effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007,
    whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement,
    or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance. See    The Company  
    Liquidity and Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and
    Other Borrowings  and Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to
    the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary
    action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to
    the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSC s authorized
    control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.
    See    The Company   Liquidity and
    Capital Sources   Debt Issuances and Other
    Borrowings  and Note 12 of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than

160

Table of Contents   

150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by state
    insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it to meet
    its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company entered into a net worth maintenance
    agreement with Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited
    ( MSMIC ), an investment in Japan of which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC
    to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to
    maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in
    accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make
    such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment
    obligations as they fall due.

The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its
    subsidiary, Exeter Reassurance Company, Ltd., under a
    reinsurance agreement with MSMIC, under which Exeter reinsures
    variable annuity business written MSMIC.

Based on our analysis and comparison of our current and future
    cash inflows from the dividends we receive from subsidiaries
    that are permitted to be paid without prior insurance regulatory
    approval, our asset portfolio and other cash flows and
    anticipated access to the capital markets, we believe there will
    be sufficient liquidity and capital to enable the Holding
    Company to make payments on debt, make cash dividend payments on
    its common and preferred stock, contribute capital to its
    subsidiaries, pay all operating expenses and meet its cash needs.

Holding Company Cash Flows.   Net cash used in
    operating activities was $384 million for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 compared to $1.2 billion of net cash
    provided for the year ending December 31, 2008.
    Accordingly, net cash provided by operating activities decreased
    by $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009
    as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The net
    cash generated from operating activities is used to meet the
    Holding Company s liquidity needs, such as debt and
    dividend payments, and provides cash available for investing
    activities. Cash flows from operations represent net earnings
    adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in operating assets
    and liabilities. The 2009 and 2008 operating activities included
    net income (loss), earnings from subsidiaries and changes in
    current assets and liabilities.

Net cash provided by operating activities, primarily the result
    of subsidiary dividends, was $1.2 billion for the years
    ending December 31, 2008 and 2007.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.6 billion
    and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2009
    and 2008, respectively. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities increased by $2.5 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31,
    2009, there were net issuances of $2.1 billion of long-term
    and junior subordinated debt compared to no net issuances in the
    comparable period of the prior year. Also, in order to
    strengthen its capital base, during the year ended
    December 31, 2009, the Holding Company did not repurchase
    any of its common stock under its common stock repurchase
    programs as compared to the Holding Company repurchasing
    $1.3 billion of its common stock in the comparable period
    of the prior year. In addition, the Holding Company issued
    $1.0 billion of common stock during the year ended
    December 31, 2009 compared with $3.3 billion of both
    treasury and common stock issued during the year ended
    December 31, 2008. Securities lending activity during the
    year ended December 31, 2009 increased the Holding
    Company s cash flows by $84 million compared to a
    decrease of $471 million in the comparable period of the
    prior year. Net cash received from collateral financing
    arrangements was $375 million during the year ended
    December 31, 2009 compared to $800 million of net cash
    paid under these agreements during the year ended
    December 31, 2008. The Holding Company repaid
    $300 million of short-term debt during the year ended
    December 31, 2009, compared with net repayments of
    $10 million during the year ended December 31, 2008.
    Financing activity results relate to the Holding Company s
    debt and equity financing activities, as well as changes due to
    the needs and obligations arising from securities lending and
    collateral financing arrangements.

Net cash provided by financing activities was $50 million
    for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to
    $2.9 billion of net cash used for the year ended
    December 31, 2007. Accordingly, net cash provided by
    financing activities increased by $2.9 billion for the year
    ended December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year. In
    2008, net cash paid relating to collateral financing
    arrangements was $800 million resulting from payments made
    by the

161

Table of Contents   

Holding Company to an unaffiliated financial institution, as
    described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements, compared to zero outflows for this purpose
    in 2007. Finally, in order to strengthen its capital base, in
    2008 the Holding Company reduced its level of common stock
    repurchase activity by $500 million compared to the prior
    year and issued $3.3 billion of common stock compared with
    zero issuance in 2007.

Net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 billion and
    $1.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. Accordingly, net cash used in investing
    activities increased by $1.0 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended
    December 31, 2008. Net purchases of fixed maturity
    securities were $2.0 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2009, partially funded by net sales of
    short-term investments of $772 million. By contrast, in the
    year ended December 31, 2008, net sales of fixed maturity
    securities were $1.0 billion, and net purchases of
    short-term investments were $1.1 billion as the Holding
    Company shifted to more liquid investments. The Holding Company
    received $130 million for the sale of a subsidiary during
    the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the use of
    $202 million related to acquisitions during the year ended
    December 31, 2008. The Holding Company also made capital
    contributions of $876 million to subsidiaries (including
    $360 million paid pursuant to a collateral financing
    arrangement providing statutory reserve support for MRSC
    associated with its intercompany reinsurance obligations, as
    described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements) during the year ended December 31,
    2009, compared to $1.3 billion (including $320 million
    paid pursuant to the collateral financing arrangement related to
    MRSC) during the year ended December 31, 2008. There were
    no repayments of loans made to subsidiaries in the year ended
    December 31, 2009 compared to a repayment of
    $400 million received in the year ended December 31,
    2008. Investing activity results relate to the Holding
    Company s management of its capital and the capital of its
    subsidiaries, as well as any business development opportunities.

Net cash used in investing activities was $1.2 billion for
    the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to
    $742 million provided for the year ended December 31,
    2007. Accordingly, net cash provided by investing activities
    decreased by $1.9 billion for the year ended
    December 31, 2008 compared to the prior year primarily due
    to increases in capital contributions to subsidiaries and
    changes in short-term investments.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for discussion on the adoption of new accounting
    pronouncements.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for discussion on the future adoption of new
    accounting pronouncements.

Subsequent
    Events  

Dividends   

On February 18, 2010, the Company s Board of Directors
    announced dividends of $0.2500000 per share, for a total of
    $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares, and
    $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on its
    Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2010,
    the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the
    securities. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2010
    to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2010.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Risk
    Management  

The Company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the
    market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. It has
    developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it
    conducts through its Enterprise Risk Management Department,
    Asset/Liability Management Unit, Treasury Department and
    Investment Department along with the management of the business
    segments. The Company has established and implemented

162

Table of Contents   

comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and
    business segment level to minimize the effects of potential
    market volatility.

The Company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate,
    equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. As
    a result of that analysis, the Company has determined that the
    estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities are
    materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign
    currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets.

Enterprise Risk Management.   MetLife has
    established several financial and non-financial senior
    management committees as part of its risk management process.
    These committees manage capital and risk positions, approve
    asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate
    corporate business standards.

MetLife also has a separate Enterprise Risk Management
    Department, which is responsible for risk throughout MetLife and
    reports to MetLife s Chief Risk Officer. The Enterprise
    Risk Management Department s primary responsibilities
    consist of:

implementing a Board of Directors approved corporate risk
    framework, which outlines the Company s approach for
    managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis;

developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring,
    monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the
    corporate risk framework;

establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels;

deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and

reporting on a periodic basis to the Finance and Risk Policy
    Committee of the Company s Board of Directors, and with
    respect to credit risk to the Investment Committee of the
    Company s Board of Directors and various financial and
    non-financial senior management committees.

MetLife does not expect to make any material changes to its risk
    management practices in 2010.

Asset/Liability Management
    ( ALM ).   The Company actively manages
    its assets using an approach that balances quality,
    diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity,
    concentration and investment return. The goals of the investment
    process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted
    investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring
    that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash
    flow and duration basis. The asset/liability management process
    is the shared responsibility of the Financial Risk Management
    and Asset/Liability Management Unit, Enterprise Risk Management,
    the Portfolio Management Unit, and the senior members of the
    operating business segments and is governed by the ALM
    Committee. The ALM Committee s duties include reviewing and
    approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines
    and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability
    management process on a periodic basis. The directives of the
    ALM Committee are carried out and monitored through ALM Working
    Groups which are set up to manage by product type.

MetLife establishes target asset portfolios for each major
    insurance product, which represent the investment strategies
    used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels
    of risk. These strategies are monitored through regular review
    of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve
    sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration
    and credit quality by the ALM Working Groups. MetLife does not
    expect to make any material changes to its asset/liability
    management practices in 2010.

Market
    Risk Exposures  

The Company has exposure to market risk through its insurance
    operations and investment activities. For purposes of this
    disclosure,  market risk  is defined as the risk of
    loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and
    foreign currency exchange rates.

Interest Rates.   The Company s exposure to
    interest rate changes results most significantly from its
    holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest
    rate sensitive liabilities. The fixed maturity securities
    include U.S. and foreign government bonds, securities
    issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and
    mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to
    changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. The interest

163

Table of Contents   

rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure
    include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain
    investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on
    variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have
    the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term
    interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. The Company
    employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management
    strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate
    movements. Product design and pricing strategies include the use
    of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some
    products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain
    products. Asset/liability management strategies include the use
    of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. See  Risk
    Factors   Changes in Market Interest Rates May
    Significantly Affect Our Profitability. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rates.   The
    Company s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar results from its
    holdings in
     non-U.S. Dollar 
    denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and
    consumer loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its
    investments in foreign subsidiaries. The principal currencies
    that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the
    Company s investment portfolios are the Euro, and the
    Canadian dollar. The principal currencies that create foreign
    currency exchange risk in the Company s liabilities are the
    British pound, the Euro and the Swiss franc. Selectively, the
    Company uses U.S. Dollar assets to support certain long
    duration foreign currency liabilities. Through its investments
    in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the Company was
    primarily exposed to the Mexican peso, the Japanese yen, the
    South Korean won, the Canadian dollar, the British pound, the
    Chilean peso, the Australian dollar, the Argentine peso and the
    Hong Kong dollar. In addition to hedging with foreign currency
    swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries, is
    held entirely or in part in U.S. Dollar assets which
    further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate
    fluctuation risk. The Company has matched much of its foreign
    currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their
    respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to
    foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation.

Equity Prices.   The Company has exposure to
    equity prices through certain liabilities that involve long-term
    guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded
    derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum
    benefits, certain policyholder account balances along with
    investments in equity securities. We manage this risk on an
    integrated basis with other risks through our asset/liability
    management strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain
    variable annuity guarantee benefits. The Company also manages
    equity price risk incurred in its investment portfolio through
    the use of derivatives. Equity exposures associated with other
    limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as
    they are not considered financial instruments under generally
    accepted accounting principles.

Management
    of Market Risk Exposures  

The Company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest
    rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price risk,
    including the use of derivative instruments.

Interest Rate Risk Management.   To manage
    interest rate risk, the Company analyzes interest rate risk
    using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow
    projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities
    and their supporting investments, including derivative
    instruments. These projections involve evaluating the potential
    gain or loss on most of the Company s in-force business
    under various increasing and decreasing interest rate
    environments. The New York State Insurance Department
    regulations require that MetLife perform some of these analyses
    annually as part of MetLife s review of the sufficiency of
    its regulatory reserves. For several of its legal entities, the
    Company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset
    portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the
    allocation of investment income to product lines. For each
    segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the GAAP
    liabilities less the DAC asset and any non-invested assets
    allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept
    to the surplus segment. The operating segments may reflect
    differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any
    product market characteristic which may drive a distinct
    investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or
    credit quality of the invested assets. Certain smaller entities
    make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the
    investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of
    liabilities in those entities. The Company measures relative
    sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to
    changes in key assumptions utilizing Company models. These
    models reflect specific product characteristics and include
    assumptions based on current and anticipated experience
    regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting

164

Table of Contents   

rates. In addition, these models include asset cash flow
    projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments,
    principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and
    defaults.

Common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are
    also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and
    liability values to changes in interest rates. In computing the
    duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all
    policyholder guarantees and to how the Company intends to set
    indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or
    dividends. Each asset portfolio has a duration target based on
    the liability duration and the investment objectives of that
    portfolio. Where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity
    of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and
    non-medical health products, the Company may support such
    liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve
    mismatch strategies.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
    Management.   Foreign currency exchange rate risk
    is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign
    subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated
    investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain
    insurance products.

The Company s Treasury Department is responsible for
    managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries.
    Limits to exposures are established and monitored by the
    Treasury Department and managed by the Investment Department.

The Investment Department is responsible for managing the
    exposure to foreign currency investments. Exposure limits to
    unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the
    standing authorizations granted to management by the Board of
    Directors and are reported to the Board of Directors on a
    periodic basis.

The lines of business are responsible for establishing limits
    and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the
    sale or issuance of insurance products.

MetLife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its
    foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its
    equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency
    exposures caused by the sale of insurance products.

Equity Price Risk Management.   Equity price
    risk incurred through the issuance of variable annuities is
    managed by the Company s Asset/Liability Management Unit in
    partnership with the Investment Department. Equity price risk is
    also incurred through its investment in equity securities and is
    managed by its Investment Department. MetLife uses derivatives
    to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability
    guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum
    benefit and equity securities. These derivatives include
    exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts
    and equity variance swaps. The Company s derivative hedges
    performed effectively through the extreme movements in the
    equity markets during the latter part of 2008. The Company also
    employs reinsurance to manage these exposures.

Hedging Activities.   MetLife uses derivative
    contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including
    interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk.
    Derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic
    basis while considering their impact on accounting results and
    GAAP and Statutory capital. The construction of the
    Company s derivative hedge programs vary depending on the
    type of risk being hedged. Some hedge programs are asset or
    liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce
    risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. The
    Company s use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as
    follows:

Risks Related to Living Guarantee Benefits   The
    Company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the
    risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits.
    These hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest
    rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options
    and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps.

Minimum Interest Rate Guarantees   For certain Company
    liability contracts, the Company provides the contractholder a
    guaranteed minimum interest rate. These contracts include
    certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. The
    Company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated
    with these liability guarantees.

165

Table of Contents   

Reinvestment Risk in Long Duration Liability
    Contracts   Derivatives are used to hedge interest
    rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts,
    such as long-term care. Hedges include zero coupon interest rate
    swaps and swaptions.

Foreign Currency Risk   The Company uses currency
    swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. These hedges
    primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments
    in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to US dollars.

General ALM Hedging Strategies   In the ordinary
    course of managing the Company s asset/liability risks, the
    Company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps,
    interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps.
    These hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or
    inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or
    related to expected future cash flows.

Risk
    Measurement: Sensitivity Analysis  

The Company measures market risk related to its market sensitive
    assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates,
    equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a
    sensitivity analysis. This analysis estimates the potential
    changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10%
    change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market
    prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company believes
    that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates
    and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. In
    performing the analysis summarized below, the Company used
    market rates at December 31, 2009. The sensitivity analysis
    separately calculates each of the Company s market risk
    exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency
    exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets
    and liabilities. The Company modeled the impact of changes in
    market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its
    market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows:

the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures
    resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest
    rates;

the U.S. Dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the
    Company s foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change
    (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange
    rates; and

the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10%
    change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices.

The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed
    as predictive of the Company s future financial
    performance. The Company cannot ensure that its actual losses in
    any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in
    the table below. Limitations related to this sensitivity
    analysis include:

the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and
    parameters established in creating the related sensitivity
    analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages;

the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported
    earnings may be materially different from the change in market
    values;

the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and
    liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and

the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities
    remains unchanged throughout the period.

Accordingly, the Company uses such models as tools and not as
    substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management.
    Based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or
    decrease) in market rates and prices, MetLife has determined
    that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the
    estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from
    interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity
    exposures.

166

Table of Contents   

The table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair
    value for each market risk exposure of the Company s market
    sensitive assets and liabilities at December 31, 2009:

167

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis: Interest Rates.   The
    table below provides additional detail regarding the potential
    loss in fair value of the Company s trading and non-trading
    interest sensitive financial instruments at December 31,
    2009 by type of asset or liability:

168

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Represents only those investments accounted for using the cost
    method. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

(3)  

Separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate
    sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is
    borne by the holder of the separate account. 

This quantitative measure of risk has decreased by
    $642 million, or 14%, to $4,057 million at
    December 31, 2009 from $4,699 million at
    December 31, 2008. The decrease in interest rate risk
    associated with the use of derivatives decreased by
    $1,571 million. Also, a decrease in the net embedded
    derivatives within liability host contracts primarily due to
    first time inclusion of international net embedded derivatives
    of $626 million decreased risk by $778 million.
    Additionally, a change in long-term and junior subordinated debt
    due to an improvement in credit spreads and new issuance of
    debt, and an increase in the duration of the investment
    portfolio, decreased risk by $318 million and
    $193 million, respectively. This was partially offset by an
    increase in interest rates across the long end of the swaps and
    U.S. Treasury curves resulting in an increase in the
    interest rate risk of $1,668 million. The increase in the
    net base of liabilities and assets of $522 million also
    increased interest rate risk which contributed to the offset.
    The remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous
    immaterial items.

169

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity Analysis:  Foreign Currency Exchange
    Rates.   The table below provides additional detail
    regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the
    Company s portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency
    exchange rates at December 31, 2009 by type of asset or
    liability:

170

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the
    estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this
    financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject
    to foreign exchange risk. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

Foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by
    $365 million, or 69%, to $891 million at
    December 31, 2009 from $526 million at
    December 31, 2008. This increase was due to an increase in
    fixed maturities of $567 million due to higher net
    exposures primarily to the Canadian dollar, the British pound
    and the Euro. Partially offsetting this change was a decrease in
    the foreign exposure related to the use of derivatives employed
    by the Company of $273 million. The remainder of the
    fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items.

Sensitivity Analysis:  Equity
    Prices.   The table below provides additional
    detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of
    the Company s portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at
    December 31, 2009 by type of asset or liability:

171

Table of Contents   

(1)  

Estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the
    estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this
    financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject
    to equity price risk. 

(2)  

Embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 

Equity price risk increased by $42 million to
    $218 million at December 31, 2009 from
    $176 million at December 31, 2008. This increase is
    due to an increase of risk of $219 million attributed to
    the use of derivatives employed by the Company to hedge its
    equity exposures, partially offset by an increase in equity
    securities of $119 million and an increase in net embedded
    derivatives within liability host contracts of $53 million.
    The remainder is attributable to numerous immaterial items.

172

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules  

173

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial
    statement schedules listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules. These consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules are the
    responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated
    financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
    our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial
    statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit
    also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
    the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
    our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
    fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and
    2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our
    opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
    relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
    a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
    information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of
    accounting for the recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses for certain investments as required by
    accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009, changed its
    method of accounting for certain assets and liabilities to a
    fair value measurement approach as required by accounting
    guidance adopted on January 1, 2008, and changed its method
    of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income
    taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on
    January 1, 2007.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission, and our report, dated February 26, 2010, expressed
    an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting.

/s/  DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2010

F-1

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
       Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      December 31, 2009 and 2008 
     
    (In millions, except share and per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-2

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
       Consolidated Statements of
    Operations   
     For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
     
    (In millions, except per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-3

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
     
      Consolidated Statements of
    Stockholders  Equity 
     For the Year Ended December 31, 2009 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-4

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
       
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity   (Continued) 
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2008 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-5

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
       
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders 
    Equity   (Continued) 
    For the Year Ended December 31, 2007 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-6

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
       
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
       For the Years Ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-7

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 
       
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
     
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
    statements. 

F-8

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial Statements  

1.    

Business,
    Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting
    Policies  

Business   

MetLife  or the  Company  refers to
    MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999 (the
     Holding Company ), and its subsidiaries, including
    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ( MLIC ). MetLife
    is a leading provider of insurance, employee benefits and
    financial services with operations throughout the United States
    and the Latin America, Asia Pacific and Europe, Middle East and
    India regions. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, MetLife
    offers life insurance, annuities, auto and home insurance,
    retail banking and other financial services to individuals, as
    well as group insurance and retirement   savings
    products and services to corporations and other institutions.

During 2009, MetLife combined its former institutional and
    individual businesses, as well as its auto   home
    unit, into a single U.S. Business organization.
    U.S. Business consists of Insurance Products, Retirement
    Products, Corporate Benefit Funding and Auto   Home
    segments. The Company also has an International segment. The
    segments are managed separately because they either provide
    different products and services, require different strategies or
    have different technology requirements. In addition, the Company
    reports certain of its results of operations in Banking,
    Corporate   Other, which is comprised of MetLife Bank,
    National Association ( MetLife Bank ) and other
    business activities. See Note 22 for further business
    segment information.

Basis
    of Presentation   

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of the Holding Company and its subsidiaries,
    partnerships and joint ventures in which the Company has
    control, and variable interest entities ( VIEs ) for
    which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Closed block
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
    outside the closed block based on the nature of the particular
    item. See Note 10. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

Certain amounts in the prior year periods  consolidated
    financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the
    2009 presentation. Such reclassifications include
    $6.9 billion reclassified from policyholder account
    balances to bank deposits in the consolidated balance sheet at
    December 31, 2008 and $2,185 million and
    ($305) million reclassified from policyholder account
    balances to net change in bank deposits within cash flows from
    financing activities in the consolidated statements of cash
    flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. See also Note 23 for reclassifications
    related to discontinued operations.

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting
    Estimates   

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America ( GAAP ) requires management to adopt
    accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that
    affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements.

A description of critical estimates is incorporated within the
    discussion of the related accounting policies which follows. In
    applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex
    judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that
    are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies, estimates and
    related judgments are common in the insurance and financial
    services industries; others are specific to the Company s
    businesses and operations. Actual results could differ from
    these estimates.

In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) approved  FASB Accounting Standards
    Codification  ( Codification ) as the single source
    of authoritative accounting guidance used in the preparation of
    financial statements in conformity with GAAP for all
    non-governmental entities. Codification changed the referencing
    and organization of accounting guidance without modification of
    existing GAAP. Since it did not modify existing GAAP,
    Codification did not have any impact on the Company s
    financial condition or results of

F-9

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

operations. On the effective date of Codification, substantially
    all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards were
    superseded and, therefore, are no longer referenced by title in
    the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Fair
    Value  

As described below, certain assets and liabilities are measured
    at estimated fair value on the Company s consolidated
    balance sheets. In addition, the notes to these consolidated
    financial statements include further disclosures of estimated
    fair values. The Company defines fair value as the price that
    would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous
    market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction
    between market participants on the measurement date. In many
    cases, the exit price and the transaction (or entry) price will
    be the same at initial recognition. However, in certain cases,
    the transaction price may not represent fair value. The fair
    value of a liability is based on the amount that would be paid
    to transfer a liability to a third-party with the same credit
    standing. It requires that fair value be a market-based
    measurement in which the fair value is determined based on a
    hypothetical transaction at the measurement date, considered
    from the perspective of a market participant. When quoted prices
    are not used to determine fair value the Company considers three
    broad valuation techniques: (i) the market approach,
    (ii) the income approach and (iii) the cost approach.
    The Company determines the most appropriate valuation technique
    to use, given what is being measured and the availability of
    sufficient inputs. The Company prioritizes the inputs to fair
    valuation techniques and allows for the use of unobservable
    inputs to the extent that observable inputs are not available.
    The Company categorizes its assets and liabilities measured at
    estimated fair value into a three-level hierarchy, based on the
    priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.
    The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted
    prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
    (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable
    inputs (Level 3). An asset or liability s
    classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
    lowest level of input to its valuation. The input levels are as
    follows:

Level 1 

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
    or liabilities. The Company defines active markets based on
    average trading volume for equity securities. The size of the
    bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for
    fixed maturity securities.

Level 2 

Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs
    include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other
    than quoted prices in Level 1; quoted prices in markets
    that are not active; or other significant inputs that are
    observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities.

Level 3 

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market
    activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the
    assets or liabilities. Unobservable inputs reflect the reporting
    entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market
    participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
    Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial
    instruments whose values are determined using pricing models,
    discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as
    well as instruments for which the determination of estimated
    fair value requires significant management judgment or
    estimation.

Prior to January 1, 2009, the measurement and disclosures
    of fair value based on exit price excluded certain items such as
    nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities initially
    measured at estimated fair value in a business combination,
    reporting units measured at estimated fair value in the first
    step of a goodwill impairment test and indefinite-lived
    intangible assets measured at estimated fair value for
    impairment assessment.

F-10

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Investments  

The accounting policies for the Company s principal
    investments are as follows:

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.   The
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities are
    classified as
     available-for-sale 
    and are reported at their estimated fair value.

Unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are
    recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income
    (loss), net of policyholder related amounts and deferred income
    taxes. All security transactions are recorded on a trade date
    basis. Investment gains and losses on sales of securities are
    determined on a specific identification basis.

Interest income on fixed maturity securities is recorded when
    earned using an effective yield method giving effect to
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Dividends
    on equity securities are recorded when declared. These dividends
    and interest income are recorded in net investment income.

Included within fixed maturity securities are loan-backed
    securities including mortgage-backed and asset-backed
    securities. Amortization of the premium or discount from the
    purchase of these securities considers the estimated timing and
    amount of prepayments of the underlying loans. Actual prepayment
    experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are
    recalculated when differences arise between the prepayments
    originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and
    currently anticipated. Prepayment assumptions for single class
    and multi-class mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are
    estimated by management using inputs obtained from third-party
    specialists, including broker-dealers, and based on
    management s knowledge of the current market. For
    credit-sensitive mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and
    certain prepayment-sensitive securities, the effective yield is
    recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, the effective yield
    is recalculated on a retrospective basis.

The Company periodically evaluates fixed maturity and equity
    securities for impairment. The assessment of whether impairments
    have occurred is based on management s
     case-by-case 
    evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in
    estimated fair value. The Company s review of its fixed
    maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an
    analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three
    categories of securities: (i) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and
    (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had
    declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or
    more for six months or greater. An extended and severe
    unrealized loss position on a fixed maturity security may not
    have any impact on the ability of the issuer to service all
    scheduled interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or
    the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized
    cost based on the present value of the expected future cash
    flows to be collected. In contrast, for certain equity
    securities, greater weight and consideration are given by the
    Company to a decline in market value and the likelihood such
    market value decline will recover. See also Note 3.

Additionally, management considers a wide range of factors about
    the security issuer and uses its best judgment in evaluating the
    cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security
    and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent
    in management s evaluation of the security are assumptions
    and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future
    earnings potential. Considerations used by the Company in the
    impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to:
    (i) the length of time and the extent to which the
    estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost;
    (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the
    issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties;
    (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry
    sector or
     sub-sector; 
    (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically
    depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for
    impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or
    industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has
    exhausted natural resources;

F-11

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether the
    Company has the intent to sell or will more likely than not be
    required to sell a particular security before the decline in
    estimated fair value below cost or amortized cost recovers;
    (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether the
    Company s ability and intent to hold the security for a
    period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its
    estimated fair value to an amount equal to or greater than cost;
    (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on
    mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (ix) other
    subjective factors, including concentrations and information
    obtained from regulators and rating agencies.

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company prospectively adopted
    new guidance on the recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment ( OTTI ) losses as described in
     Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements  
    Financial Instruments.  The new guidance requires that an
    OTTI be recognized in earnings for a fixed maturity security in
    an unrealized loss position when it is anticipated that the
    amortized cost will not be recovered. In such situations, the
    OTTI recognized in earnings is the entire difference between the
    fixed maturity security s amortized cost and its estimated
    fair value only when either: (i) the Company has the intent
    to sell the fixed maturity security; or (ii) it is more
    likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the
    fixed maturity security before recovery of the decline in
    estimated fair value below amortized cost. If neither of these
    two conditions exists, the difference between the amortized cost
    basis of the fixed maturity security and the present value of
    projected future cash flows expected to be collected is
    recognized as an OTTI in earnings ( credit loss ). If
    the estimated fair value is less than the present value of
    projected future cash flows expected to be collected, this
    portion of OTTI related to other-than credit factors
    ( noncredit loss ) is recorded as other comprehensive
    income (loss). There was no change for equity securities which,
    when an OTTI has occurred, continue to be impaired for the
    entire difference between the equity security s cost and
    its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings.

Prior to the adoption of the new OTTI guidance, the Company
    recognized in earnings an OTTI for a fixed maturity security in
    an unrealized loss position unless it could assert that it had
    both the intent and ability to hold the fixed maturity security
    for a period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery of
    estimated fair value to the security s amortized cost
    basis. Also, prior to the adoption of this guidance, the entire
    difference between the fixed maturity security s amortized
    cost basis and its estimated fair value was recognized in
    earnings if it was determined to have an OTTI.

With respect to equity securities, the Company considers in its
    OTTI analysis its intent and ability to hold a particular equity
    security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the
    recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount equal to or
    greater than cost. If a sale decision is made for an equity
    security and it is not expected to recover to an amount at least
    equal to cost prior to the expected time of the sale, the
    security will be deemed
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an
    OTTI loss will be recorded in earnings. When an OTTI loss has
    occurred, the OTTI loss is the entire difference between the
    equity security s cost and its estimated fair value with a
    corresponding charge to earnings.

With respect to perpetual hybrid securities that have attributes
    of both debt and equity, some of which are classified as fixed
    maturity securities and some of which are classified as
    non-redeemable preferred stock within equity securities, the
    Company considers in its OTTI analysis whether there has been
    any deterioration in credit of the issuer and the likelihood of
    recovery in value of the securities that are in a severe and
    extended unrealized loss position. The Company also considers
    whether any perpetual hybrid securities, with an unrealized
    loss, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend
    payments. When an OTTI loss has occurred, the OTTI loss is the
    entire difference between the perpetual hybrid security s
    cost and its estimated fair value with a corresponding charge to
    earnings.

F-12

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Upon adoption of the new OTTI guidance, the Company s
    methodology and significant inputs used to determine the amount
    of the credit loss are as follows:

(i) 

The Company calculates the recovery value of fixed maturity
    securities by performing a discounted cash flow analysis based
    on the present value of future cash flows expected to be
    received. The discount rate is generally the effective interest
    rate of the fixed maturity security prior to impairment.

(ii) 

When determining the collectability and the period over which
    the fixed maturity security is expected to recover, the Company
    applies the same considerations utilized in its overall
    impairment evaluation process which incorporates information
    regarding the specific security, fundamentals of the industry
    and geographic area in which the security issuer operates, and
    overall macroeconomic conditions. Projected future cash flows
    are estimated using assumptions derived from management s
    best estimates of likely scenario-based outcomes after giving
    consideration to a variety of variables that include, but are
    not limited to: general payment terms of the security; the
    likelihood that the issuer can service the scheduled interest
    and principal payments; the quality and amount of any credit
    enhancements; the security s position within the capital
    structure of the issuer; possible corporate restructurings or
    asset sales by the issuer; and changes to the rating of the
    security or the issuer by rating agencies.

(iii) 

Additional considerations are made when assessing the unique
    features that apply to certain structured securities such as
    residential mortgage-backed securities ( RMBS ),
    commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and
    asset-backed securities ( ABS ). These additional
    factors for structured securities include, but are not limited
    to: the quality of underlying collateral; expected prepayment
    speeds; current and forecasted loss severity; consideration of
    the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular
    security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure
    of the security.

(iv) 

When determining the amount of the credit loss for U.S. and
    foreign corporate securities, foreign government securities and
    state and political subdivision securities, management considers
    the estimated fair value as the recovery value when available
    information does not indicate that another value is more
    appropriate. When information is identified that indicates a
    recovery value other than estimated fair value, management
    considers in the determination of recovery value the same
    considerations utilized in its overall impairment evaluation
    process which incorporates available information and
    management s best estimated of scenarios-based outcomes
    regarding the specific security and issuer; possible corporate
    restructurings or asset sales by the issuer; the quality and
    amount of any credit enhancements; the security s position
    within the capital structure of the issuer; fundamentals of the
    industry and geographic area in which the security issuer
    operates, and the overall macroeconomic conditions.

The cost or amortized cost of fixed maturity and equity
    securities is adjusted for OTTI in the period in which the
    determination is made. These impairments are included within net
    investment gains (losses). The Company does not change the
    revised cost basis for subsequent recoveries in value.

In periods subsequent to the recognition of OTTI on a fixed
    maturity security, the Company accounts for the impaired
    security as if it had been purchased on the measurement date of
    the impairment. Accordingly, the discount (or reduced premium)
    based on the new cost basis is accreted into net investment
    income over the remaining term of the fixed maturity security in
    a prospective manner based on the amount and timing of estimated
    future cash flows.

The Company purchases and receives beneficial interests in
    special purpose entities ( SPEs ), which enhance the
    Company s total return on its investment portfolio
    principally by providing equity-based returns on fixed maturity
    securities. These investments are generally made through
    structured notes and similar instruments (collectively,
     Structured Investment Transactions ). The Company has
    not guaranteed the performance, liquidity or obligations of the
    SPEs and its exposure to loss is limited to its carrying value
    of the beneficial interests in the SPEs. The Company does not
    consolidate such SPEs as it has determined it is not the primary
    beneficiary. These Structured Investment Transactions are
    included in fixed maturity

F-13

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

securities and their investment income is generally recognized
    using the retrospective interest method. Impairments of these
    investments are included in net investment gains (losses). In
    addition, the Company has invested in certain structured
    transactions that are VIEs. These structured transactions
    include reinsurance trusts, asset-backed securitizations, hybrid
    securities, joint ventures, limited partnerships and limited
    liability companies. The Company consolidates those VIEs for
    which it is deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The Company
    reconsiders whether it is the primary beneficiary for
    investments designated as VIEs on a quarterly basis.

Trading Securities.   The Company s trading
    securities portfolio, principally consisting of fixed maturity
    and equity securities, supports investment strategies that
    involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of securities
    and the execution of short sale agreements, and supports asset
    and liability matching strategies for certain insurance
    products. Trading securities which are presented separately and
    short sale agreement liabilities, which are included in other
    liabilities, are recorded at estimated fair value, with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income. Related dividends and investment income are
    also included in net investment income.

Securities Lending.   Securities loaned
    transactions, whereby blocks of securities, which are included
    in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are
    loaned to third parties, are treated as financing arrangements
    and the associated liability is recorded at the amount of cash
    received. The Company generally obtains collateral in an amount
    equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the securities
    loaned. The Company monitors the estimated fair value of the
    securities loaned on a daily basis with additional collateral
    obtained as necessary. Substantially all of the Company s
    securities loaned transactions are with brokerage firms and
    commercial banks. Income and expenses associated with securities
    loaned transactions are reported as investment income and
    investment expense, respectively, within net investment income.

Mortgage Loans.   Mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    are stated at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any
    unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, net
    of valuation allowances. Interest income is accrued on the
    principal amount of the loan based on the loan s
    contractual interest rate. Amortization of premiums and
    discounts is recorded using the effective yield method. Interest
    income, amortization of premiums and discounts and prepayment
    fees are reported in net investment income. Loans are considered
    to be impaired when it is probable that, based upon current
    information and events, the Company will be unable to collect
    all amounts due under the contractual terms of the loan
    agreement. Based on the facts and circumstances of the
    individual loans being impaired, loan specific valuation
    allowances are established for the excess carrying value of the
    loan over either: (i) the present value of expected future
    cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective
    interest rate, (ii) the estimated fair value of the
    loan s underlying collateral if the loan is in the process
    of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or
    (iii) the loan s observable market price. The Company
    also establishes allowances for loan losses for pools of loans
    with similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on
    similar property types, similar
     loan-to-value, 
    or similar debt service coverage ratio factors when, based on
    past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred
    and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Interest
    income earned on impaired loans is accrued on the principal
    amount of the loan based on the loan s contractual interest
    rate. However, interest ceases to accrue for loans on which
    interest is generally more than 60 days past due
     and/or  when
    the collection of interest is not considered probable. Cash
    receipts on such impaired loans are recorded in accordance with
    the loan agreement as a reduction of principal and/or as
    interest income. Gains and losses from the sale of loans and
    changes in valuation allowances are reported in net investment
    gains (losses).

Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    primarily include residential mortgages which are originated
    with the intent to sell and for which the fair value option was
    elected. These loans are stated at estimated fair value with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in other
    revenue. Certain other mortgage loans previously designated as
     held-for-investment 
    have been designated as
     held-for-sale 
    to reflect a change in the Company s intention as it
    relates to holding such loans. At the time of transfer, such
    loans are recorded at the

F-14

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

lower of amortized cost or estimated fair value less expected
    disposition costs determined on an individual loan basis.
    Amortized cost is determined in the same manner as for mortgage
    loans
     held-for-investment 
    described above. The amount by which amortized cost exceeds
    estimated fair value less expected disposition costs is
    accounted for as a valuation allowance. Changes in such
    valuation allowance are recognized in net investment gains
    (losses).

Policy Loans.   Policy loans are stated at
    unpaid principal balances. Interest income on such loans is
    recorded as earned in investment income using the contractually
    agreed upon interest rate. Generally, interest is capitalized on
    the policy s anniversary date.

Real Estate.   Real estate
     held-for-investment, 
    including related improvements, is stated at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a
    straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset
    (typically 20 to 55 years). Rental income is recognized on
    a straight-line basis over the term of the respective leases.
    The Company classifies a property as
     held-for-sale 
    if it commits to a plan to sell a property within one year and
    actively markets the property in its current condition for a
    price that is reasonable in comparison to its estimated fair
    value. The Company classifies the results of operations and the
    gain or loss on sale of a property that either has been disposed
    of or classified as
     held-for-sale 
    as discontinued operations, if the ongoing operations of the
    property will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the
    Company and if the Company will not have any significant
    continuing involvement in the operations of the property after
    the sale. Real estate
     held-for-sale 
    is stated at the lower of depreciated cost or estimated fair
    value less expected disposition costs. Real estate is not
    depreciated while it is classified as
     held-for-sale. 
    The Company periodically reviews its properties
     held-for-investment 
    for impairment and tests properties for recoverability whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount
    of the asset may not be recoverable and the carrying value of
    the property exceeds its estimated fair value. Properties whose
    carrying values are greater than their undiscounted cash flows
    are written down to their estimated fair value, with the
    impairment loss included in net investment gains (losses).
    Impairment losses are based upon the estimated fair value of
    real estate, which is generally computed using the present value
    of expected future cash flows from the real estate discounted at
    a rate commensurate with the underlying risks. Real estate
    acquired upon foreclosure is recorded at the lower of estimated
    fair value or the carrying value of the mortgage loan at the
    date of foreclosure.

Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests.   The Company uses the equity method of
    accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests consisting of leveraged
    buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds in
    which it has more than a minor equity interest or more than a
    minor influence over the joint ventures or partnership s
    operations, but does not have a controlling interest and is not
    the primary beneficiary. The equity method is also used for such
    investments in which the Company has significant influence or
    more than a 20% interest. For certain real estate joint ventures
    the Company records its share of earnings using a three-month
    lag methodology for all instances where the timely financial
    information is available and the contractual right exists to
    receive such financial information. The Company uses the cost
    method of accounting for investments in real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has
    a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the
    joint ventures or the partnership s operations. The Company
    reports the distributions from real estate joint ventures and
    other limited partnership interests accounted for under the cost
    method and equity in earnings from real estate joint ventures
    and other limited partnership interests accounted for under the
    equity method in net investment income. In addition to the
    investees performing regular evaluations for the impairment of
    underlying investments, the Company routinely evaluates its
    investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnerships for impairments. The Company considers its cost
    method investments for OTTI when the carrying value of real
    estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests
    exceeds the net asset value ( NAV ). The Company takes
    into consideration the severity and duration of this excess when
    deciding if the cost method investment is
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. For equity method investees, the Company considers
    financial and other information provided by the investee, other
    known information and

F-15

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

inherent risks in the underlying investments, as well as future
    capital commitments, in determining whether an impairment has
    occurred. When an OTTI is deemed to have occurred, the Company
    records a realized capital loss within net investment gains
    (losses) to record the investment at its estimated fair value.

Short-term Investments.   Short-term investments
    include investments with remaining maturities of one year or
    less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition
    and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated
    fair value, or stated at estimated fair value, if available.

Other Invested Assets.   Other invested assets
    consist principally of freestanding derivatives with positive
    estimated fair values, leveraged leases, investments in
    insurance enterprise joint ventures, tax credit partnerships,
    funding agreements, mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs )
    and funds withheld at interest. Freestanding derivatives with
    positive estimated fair values are described in the derivatives
    accounting policy which follows.

Leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. The
    Company participates in lease transactions which are diversified
    by industry, asset type and geographic area. The Company
    recognizes income on the leveraged leases by applying the
    leveraged lease s estimated rate of return to the net
    investment in the lease. The Company regularly reviews residual
    values and impairs them to expected values.

Joint venture investments represent the Company s
    investments in entities that engage in insurance underwriting
    activities and are accounted for on the equity method.

Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose of
    investing in low-income housing and other social causes, where
    the primary return on investment is in the form of tax credits
    and are also accounted for under the equity method or under the
    effective yield method. The Company reports the equity in
    earnings of joint venture investments and tax credit
    partnerships in net investment income.

Funding agreements represent arrangements where the Company has
    long-term interest bearing amounts on deposit with third parties
    and are generally stated at amortized cost.

MSRs are measured at estimated fair value and are either
    acquired or are generated from the sale of originated
    residential mortgage loans where the servicing rights are
    retained by the Company. Changes in estimated fair value of MSRs
    are reported in other revenues in the period in which the change
    occurs.

Funds withheld represent amounts contractually withheld by
    ceding companies in accordance with reinsurance agreements. The
    Company records a funds withheld receivable rather than the
    underlying investments. The Company recognizes interest on funds
    withheld at rates defined by the terms of the agreement which
    may be contractually specified or directly related to the
    investment portfolio and records it in net investment income.

The Company s investments are exposed to four primary
    sources of risk: credit, interest rate, liquidity risk, and
    market valuation. The financial statement risks, stemming from
    such investment risks, are those associated with the
    determination of estimated fair values, the diminished ability
    to sell certain investments in times of strained market
    conditions, the recognition of impairments, the recognition of
    income on certain investments and the potential consolidation of
    VIEs. The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs
    relating to these financial statement risks may have a material
    effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated
    financial statements.

When available, the estimated fair value of the Company s
    fixed maturity and equity securities are based on quoted prices
    in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable.
    Generally, these are the most liquid of the Company s
    securities holdings and valuation of these securities does not
    involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    inputs to these market standard valuation methodologies include,
    but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing of the
    issuer or

F-16

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

counterparty, industry sector of the issuer, coupon rate, call
    provisions, sinking fund requirements, maturity, estimated
    duration and management s assumptions regarding liquidity
    and estimated future cash flows. Accordingly, the estimated fair
    values are based on available market information and
    management s judgments about financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active, liquid
    markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active and
    observable yields and spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation, and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are based on
    assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances and
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities.

The estimated fair value of residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined based on observable pricing of residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for
    securities backed by similar types of loans, adjusted to convert
    the securities prices to loan prices. Generally, quoted market
    prices are not available. When observable pricing for similar
    loans, or securities that are backed by similar loans, are not
    available, the estimated fair values of residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgage loans have also been
    designated as
     held-for-sale 
    which are recorded at the lower of amortized cost or estimated
    fair value less expected disposition costs determined on an
    individual loan basis. For these loans, estimated fair value is
    determined using independent broker quotations or, when the loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral
    estimated using internal models.

The estimated fair value of MSRs is principally determined
    through the use of internal discounted cash flow models which
    utilize various assumptions as to discount rates,
    loan-prepayments and servicing costs. The use of different
    valuation assumptions and inputs, as well as assumptions
    relating to the collection of expected cash flows may have a
    material effect on the estimated fair values of MSRs.

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by
    rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in
    asset liquidity. The Company s ability to sell securities,
    or the price ultimately realized for these securities, depends
    upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the
    use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of
    certain securities.

The determination of the amount of allowances and impairments,
    as applicable, is described previously by investment type. The
    determination of such allowances and impairments is highly
    subjective and is based upon the Company s periodic
    evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated
    with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and
    assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
    becomes available.

The recognition of income on certain investments (e.g.
    loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed and
    asset-backed securities, certain structured investment
    transactions, trading securities, etc.) is dependent upon market
    conditions, which could result in prepayments and changes in
    amounts to be earned.

The accounting rules for the determination of when an entity is
    a VIE and when to consolidate a VIE are complex. The
    determination of the VIE s primary beneficiary requires an
    evaluation of the contractual and implied rights and obligations
    associated with each party s relationship with or
    involvement in the entity, an estimate of the

F-17

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

entity s expected losses and expected residual returns and
    the allocation of such estimates to each party involved in the
    entity. The primary beneficiary is defined as the entity that
    will absorb a majority of a VIE s expected losses, receive
    a majority of a VIE s expected residual returns if no
    single entity absorbs a majority of expected losses, or both.

When assessing the expected losses to determine the primary
    beneficiary for structured investment products such as
    asset-backed securitizations and collateralized debt
    obligations, the Company uses historical default probabilities
    based on the credit rating of each issuer and other inputs
    including maturity dates, industry classifications and
    geographic location. Using computational algorithms, the
    analysis simulates default scenarios resulting in a range of
    expected losses and the probability associated with each
    occurrence. For other investment structures such as hybrid
    securities, joint ventures, limited partnerships and limited
    liability companies, the Company takes into consideration the
    design of the VIE and generally uses a qualitative approach to
    determine if it is the primary beneficiary. This approach
    includes an analysis of all contractual and implied rights and
    obligations held by all parties including profit and loss
    allocations, repayment or residual value guarantees, put and
    call options and other derivative instruments. If the primary
    beneficiary of a VIE can not be identified using this
    qualitative approach, the Company calculates the expected losses
    and expected residual returns of the VIE using a
    probability-weighted cash flow model. The use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs in the determination of
    the primary beneficiary could have a material effect on the
    amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived
    from interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or other
    financial indices. Derivatives may be exchange-traded or
    contracted in the
     over-the-counter 
    market. The Company uses a variety of derivatives, including
    swaps, forwards, futures and option contracts, to manage risks
    relating to its ongoing business. To a lesser extent, the
    Company uses credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps,
    to synthetically replicate investment risks and returns which
    are not readily available in the cash market. The Company also
    purchases certain securities, issues certain insurance policies
    and investment contracts and engages in certain reinsurance
    contracts that have embedded derivatives.

Freestanding derivatives are carried on the Company s
    consolidated balance sheets either as assets within other
    invested assets or as liabilities within other liabilities at
    estimated fair value as determined through the use of quoted
    market prices for exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate
    forwards to sell certain to-be-announced securities or through
    the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted market values are not available, is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The Company does not offset the fair value amounts recognized
    for derivatives executed with the same counterparty under the
    same master netting agreement.

If a derivative is not designated as an accounting hedge or its
    use in managing risk does not qualify for hedge accounting,
    changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative are
    generally reported in net investment gains (losses) except for
    those (i) in policyholder benefits and claims for economic
    hedges of variable annuity guarantees included in future policy
    benefits, (ii) in net investment income for economic hedges
    of equity method investments in joint ventures, or for all
    derivatives held in relation to the trading portfolios,
    (iii) in other revenues for derivatives held in connection
    with the Company s mortgage banking activities and
    (iv) in other expenses for economic hedges of foreign
    currency exposure related to the Company s international
    subsidiaries. The fluctuations in estimated fair value of
    derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting
    can result in significant volatility in net income.

F-18

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

To qualify for hedge accounting, at the inception of the hedging
    relationship, the Company formally documents its risk management
    objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transaction,
    as well as its designation of the hedge as either (i) a
    hedge of the estimated fair value of a recognized asset or
    liability ( fair value hedge  (ii) a hedge of a
    forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be
    received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability
    ( cash flow hedge  or (iii) a hedge of a net
    investment in a foreign operation. In this documentation, the
    Company sets forth how the hedging instrument is expected to
    hedge the designated risks related to the hedged item and sets
    forth the method that will be used to retrospectively and
    prospectively assess the hedging instrument s effectiveness
    and the method which will be used to measure ineffectiveness. A
    derivative designated as a hedging instrument must be assessed
    as being highly effective in offsetting the designated risk of
    the hedged item. Hedge effectiveness is formally assessed at
    inception and periodically throughout the life of the designated
    hedging relationship. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and
    measurements of ineffectiveness are also subject to
    interpretation and estimation and different interpretations or
    estimates may have a material effect on the amount reported in
    net income.

The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of
    the primary accounting guidance continue to evolve in practice.
    Judgment is applied in determining the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment under such accounting guidance. If it was
    determined that hedge accounting designations were not
    appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially
    affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and
    application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate
    accounting treatment may result in a differing impact in the
    consolidated financial statements of the Company from that
    previously reported.

Under a fair value hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of
    the hedging derivative, including amounts measured as
    ineffectiveness, and changes in the estimated fair value of the
    hedged item related to the designated risk being hedged, are
    reported within net investment gains (losses). The estimated
    fair values of the hedging derivatives are exclusive of any
    accruals that are separately reported in the consolidated
    statement of operations within interest income or interest
    expense to match the location of the hedged item. However,
    accruals that are not scheduled to settle until maturity are
    included in the estimated fair value of derivatives in the
    consolidated balance sheets.

Under a cash flow hedge, changes in the estimated fair value of
    the hedging derivative measured as effective are reported within
    other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of
    stockholders  equity and the deferred gains or losses on
    the derivative are reclassified into the consolidated statement
    of operations when the Company s earnings are affected by
    the variability in cash flows of the hedged item. Changes in the
    estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as
    ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains
    (losses). The estimated fair values of the hedging derivatives
    are exclusive of any accruals that are separately reported in
    the consolidated statement of operations within interest income
    or interest expense to match the location of the hedged item.
    However, accruals that are not scheduled to settle until
    maturity are included in the estimated fair value of derivatives
    in the consolidated balance sheets.

In a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, changes
    in the estimated fair value of the hedging derivative that are
    measured as effective are reported within other comprehensive
    income (loss) consistent with the translation adjustment for the
    hedged net investment in the foreign operation. Changes in the
    estimated fair value of the hedging instrument measured as
    ineffectiveness are reported within net investment gains
    (losses).

The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively when:
    (i) it is determined that the derivative is no longer
    highly effective in offsetting changes in the estimated fair
    value or cash flows of a hedged item; (ii) the derivative
    expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; (iii) it is no
    longer probable that the hedged forecasted transaction will
    occur; or (iv) the derivative is de-designated as a hedging
    instrument.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is determined
    that the derivative is not highly effective in offsetting
    changes in the estimated fair value or cash flows of a hedged
    item, the derivative continues to be carried in

F-19

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the consolidated balance sheets at its estimated fair value,
    with changes in estimated fair value recognized currently in net
    investment gains (losses). The carrying value of the hedged
    recognized asset or liability under a fair value hedge is no
    longer adjusted for changes in its estimated fair value due to
    the hedged risk, and the cumulative adjustment to its carrying
    value is amortized into income over the remaining life of the
    hedged item. Provided the hedged forecasted transaction is still
    probable of occurrence, the changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives recorded in other comprehensive income (loss)
    related to discontinued cash flow hedges are released into the
    consolidated statement of operations when the Company s
    earnings are affected by the variability in cash flows of the
    hedged item.

When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is no longer
    probable that the forecasted transactions will occur on the
    anticipated date or within two months of that date, the
    derivative continues to be carried in the consolidated balance
    sheets at its estimated fair value, with changes in estimated
    fair value recognized currently in net investment gains
    (losses). Deferred gains and losses of a derivative recorded in
    other comprehensive income (loss) pursuant to the discontinued
    cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction that is no longer
    probable are recognized immediately in net investment gains
    (losses).

In all other situations in which hedge accounting is
    discontinued, the derivative is carried at its estimated fair
    value in the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in its
    estimated fair value recognized in the current period as net
    investment gains (losses).

The Company is also a party to financial instruments that
    contain terms which are deemed to be embedded derivatives. The
    Company assesses each identified embedded derivative to
    determine whether it is required to be bifurcated. If the
    instrument would not be accounted for in its entirety at
    estimated fair value and it is determined that the terms of the
    embedded derivative are not clearly and closely related to the
    economic characteristics of the host contract, and that a
    separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a
    derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated
    from the host contract and accounted for as a freestanding
    derivative. Such embedded derivatives are carried in the
    consolidated balance sheets at estimated fair value with the
    host contract and changes in their estimated fair value are
    generally reported in net investment gains (losses) except for
    those in policyholder benefits and claims related to ceded
    reinsurance of guaranteed minimum income benefits. If the
    Company is unable to properly identify and measure an embedded
    derivative for separation from its host contract, the entire
    contract is carried on the balance sheet at estimated fair
    value, with changes in estimated fair value recognized in the
    current period in net investment gains (losses) or in
    policyholder benefits and claims. Additionally, the Company may
    elect to carry an entire contract on the balance sheet at
    estimated fair value, with changes in estimated fair value
    recognized in the current period in net investment gains
    (losses) or in policyholder benefits and claims if that contract
    contains an embedded derivative that requires bifurcation. There
    is a risk that embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation may
    not be identified and reported at estimated fair value in the
    consolidated financial statements and that their related changes
    in estimated fair value could materially affect reported net
    income.

Cash and
    Cash Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
    with an original or remaining maturity of three months or less
    at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents.

Property,
    Equipment, Leasehold Improvements and Computer
    Software  

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, which are
    included in other assets, are stated at cost, less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is determined using
    the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the
    assets, as appropriate. The estimated life for company occupied
    real estate property is generally 40 years. Estimated lives
    generally range from five to ten years for leasehold
    improvements and three to seven years for all other property and
    equipment. The cost basis of the property, equipment and
    leasehold improvements was $1.9 billion and
    $1.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Accumulated

F-20

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and
    leasehold improvements was $1,046 million and
    $926 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Related depreciation and amortization expense was
    $152 million, $150 million and $132 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

Computer software, which is included in other assets, is stated
    at cost, less accumulated amortization. Purchased software
    costs, as well as certain internal and external costs incurred
    to develop internal-use computer software during the application
    development stage, are capitalized. Such costs are amortized
    generally over a four-year period using the straight-line
    method. The cost basis of computer software was
    $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Accumulated amortization of
    capitalized software was $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Related
    amortization expense was $171 million, $153 million
    and $121 million for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

The Company incurs significant costs in connection with
    acquiring new and renewal insurance business. Costs that vary
    with and relate to the production of new business are deferred
    as DAC. Such costs consist principally of commissions and agency
    and policy issuance expenses. VOBA is an intangible asset that
    represents the present value of future profits embedded in
    acquired insurance annuity and investment   type
    contracts. VOBA is based on actuarially determined projections,
    by each block of business, of future policy and contract
    charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account
    performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns
    and other factors. Actual experience on the purchased business
    may vary from these projections. The recovery of DAC and VOBA is
    dependent upon the future profitability of the related business.
    DAC and VOBA are aggregated in the financial statements for
    reporting purposes.

DAC for property and casualty insurance contracts, which is
    primarily composed of commissions and certain underwriting
    expenses, is amortized on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term or reinsurance treaty.

DAC and VOBA on life insurance or investment-type contracts are
    amortized in proportion to gross premiums, gross margins or
    gross profits, depending on the type of contract as described
    below.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to non-participating
    and non-dividend-paying traditional contracts (term insurance,
    non-participating whole life insurance, non-medical health
    insurance and traditional group life insurance) over the entire
    premium paying period in proportion to the present value of
    actual historic and expected future gross premiums. The present
    value of expected premiums is based upon the premium requirement
    of each policy and assumptions for mortality, morbidity,
    persistency and investment returns at policy issuance, or policy
    acquisition, as it relates to VOBA, that include provisions for
    adverse deviation and are consistent with the assumptions used
    to calculate future policyholder benefit liabilities. These
    assumptions are not revised after policy issuance or acquisition
    unless the DAC or VOBA balance is deemed to be unrecoverable
    from future expected profits. Absent a premium deficiency,
    variability in amortization after policy issuance or acquisition
    is caused only by variability in premium volumes.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to participating,
    dividend-paying traditional contracts over the estimated lives
    of the contracts in proportion to actual and expected future
    gross margins. The amortization includes interest based on rates
    in effect at inception or acquisition of the contracts. The
    future gross margins are dependent principally on investment
    returns, policyholder dividend scales, mortality, persistency,
    expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of
    reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such
    as inflation. For participating contracts (dividend paying
    traditional contracts within the closed block) future gross
    margins are also dependent upon changes in the policyholder
    dividend obligation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates
    that investment returns, expenses, persistency and other factor
    changes as well as policyholder dividend scales are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross margins with the actual gross margins for that
    period. When the actual

F-21

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

gross margins change from previously estimated gross margins,
    the cumulative DAC and VOBA amortization is re- estimated and
    adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations.
    When actual gross margins exceed those previously estimated, the
    DAC and VOBA amortization will increase, resulting in a current
    period charge to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    actual gross margins are below the previously estimated gross
    margins. Each reporting period, the Company also updates the
    actual amount of business in-force, which impacts expected
    future gross margins. When expected future gross margins are
    below those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization
    will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the expected future gross
    margins are above the previously estimated expected future gross
    margins. Each period, the Company also reviews the estimated
    gross margins for each block of business to determine the
    recoverability of DAC and VOBA balances.

The Company amortizes DAC and VOBA related to fixed and variable
    universal life contracts and fixed and variable deferred annuity
    contracts over the estimated lives of the contracts in
    proportion to actual and expected future gross profits. The
    amortization includes interest based on rates in effect at
    inception or acquisition of the contracts. The amount of future
    gross profits is dependent principally upon returns in excess of
    the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, persistency,
    interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business,
    creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties, the effect of
    any hedges used and certain economic variables, such as
    inflation. Of these factors, the Company anticipates that
    investment returns, expenses and persistency are reasonably
    likely to impact significantly the rate of DAC and VOBA
    amortization. Each reporting period, the Company updates the
    estimated gross profits with the actual gross profits for that
    period. When the actual gross profits change from previously
    estimated gross profits, the cumulative DAC and VOBA
    amortization is re-estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge
    or credit to current operations. When actual gross profits
    exceed those previously estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization
    will increase, resulting in a current period charge to earnings.
    The opposite result occurs when the actual gross profits are
    below the previously estimated gross profits. Each reporting
    period, the Company also updates the actual amount of business
    remaining in-force, which impacts expected future gross profits.
    When expected future gross profits are below those previously
    estimated, the DAC and VOBA amortization will increase,
    resulting in a current period charge to earnings. The opposite
    result occurs when the expected future gross profits are above
    the previously estimated expected future gross profits. Each
    period, the Company also reviews the estimated gross profits for
    each block of business to determine the recoverability of DAC
    and VOBA balances.

Separate account rates of return on variable universal life
    contracts and variable deferred annuity contracts affect
    in-force account balances on such contracts each reporting
    period which can result in significant fluctuations in
    amortization of DAC and VOBA. Returns that are higher than the
    Company s long-term expectation produce higher account
    balances, which increases the Company s future fee
    expectations and decreases future benefit payment expectations
    on minimum death and living benefit guarantees, resulting in
    higher expected future gross profits. The opposite result occurs
    when returns are lower than the Company s long-term
    expectation. The Company s practice to determine the impact
    of gross profits resulting from returns on separate accounts
    assumes that long-term appreciation in equity markets is not
    changed by short-term market fluctuations, but is only changed
    when sustained interim deviations are expected. The Company
    monitors these changes and only changes the assumption when its
    long-term expectation changes.

The Company also reviews periodically other long-term
    assumptions underlying the projections of estimated gross
    margins and profits. These include investment returns,
    policyholder dividend scales, interest crediting rates,
    mortality, persistency and expenses to administer business.
    Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation
    of estimated gross margins and profits which may have
    significantly changed. If the update of assumptions causes
    expected future gross margins and profits to increase, DAC and
    VOBA amortization will decrease, resulting in a current period
    increase to earnings. The opposite result occurs when the
    assumption update causes expected future gross margins and
    profits to decrease.

F-22

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Periodically, the Company modifies product benefits, features,
    rights or coverages that occur by the exchange of a contract for
    a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a
    contract, or by election or coverage within a contract. If such
    modification, referred to as an internal replacement,
    substantially changes the contract, the associated DAC is
    written off immediately through income and any new deferrable
    costs associated with the replacement contract are deferred. If
    the modification does not substantially change the contract, the
    DAC amortization on the original contract will continue and any
    acquisition costs associated with the related modification are
    expensed.

Sales
    Inducements  

The Company has two different types of sales inducements which
    are included in other assets: (i) the policyholder receives
    a bonus whereby the policyholder s initial account balance
    is increased by an amount equal to a specified percentage of the
    customer s deposit; and (ii) the policyholder receives
    a higher interest rate using a dollar cost averaging method than
    would have been received based on the normal general account
    interest rate credited. The Company defers sales inducements and
    amortizes them over the life of the policy using the same
    methodology and assumptions used to amortize DAC. The
    amortization of sales inducements is included in policyholder
    benefits and claims. Each year the Company reviews the deferred
    sales inducements to determine the recoverability of these
    balances.

Value of
    Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired  

Value of distribution agreements ( VODA ) is reported
    in other assets and represents the present value of future
    profits associated with the expected future business derived
    from the distribution agreements. Value of customer
    relationships acquired ( VOCRA ) is also reported in
    other assets and represents the present value of the expected
    future profits associated with the expected future business
    acquired through existing customers of the acquired company or
    business. The VODA and VOCRA associated with past acquisitions
    are amortized over useful life ranging from 10 to 30 years
    and such amortization is included in other expenses. Each year
    the Company reviews VODA and VOCRA to determine the
    recoverability of these balances.

Goodwill  

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for
    impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or
    circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate,
    indicate that there may be justification for conducting an
    interim test. The Company performs its annual goodwill
    impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based
    upon data as of the close of the second quarter.

Impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach,
    which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the
     reporting unit  level. A reporting unit is the
    operating segment or a business one level below the operating
    segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and
    regularly reviewed by management at that level. For purposes of
    goodwill impairment testing, a significant portion of goodwill
    within Banking, Corporate   Other is allocated to
    reporting units within the Company s business segments.

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying
    value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value,
    there might be an indication of impairment. In such instances,
    the implied fair value of the goodwill is determined in the same
    manner as the amount of goodwill would be determined in a
    business acquisition. The excess of the carrying value of
    goodwill over the implied fair value of goodwill is recognized
    as an impairment and recorded as a charge against net income.

In performing its goodwill impairment tests, when we believe
    meaningful comparable market data are available, the estimated
    fair values of the reporting units are determined using a market
    multiple approach. When relevant comparables are not available,
    the Company uses a discounted cash flow model. For reporting
    units which

F-23

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

are particularly sensitive to market assumptions, such as the
    retirement products and individual life reporting units, the
    Company may corroborate its estimated fair values by using
    additional valuation methodologies.

The key inputs, judgments and assumptions necessary in
    determining estimated fair value include projected earnings,
    current book value (with and without accumulated other
    comprehensive income), the level of economic capital required to
    support the mix of business, long term growth rates, comparative
    market multiples, the account value of in-force business,
    projections of new and renewal business, as well as margins on
    such business, the level of interest rates, credit spreads,
    equity market levels and the discount rate we believe
    appropriate to the risk associated with the respective reporting
    unit. The estimated fair value of the retirement products and
    individual life reporting units are particularly sensitive to
    the equity market levels.

When testing goodwill for impairment, we also consider the
    Company s market capitalization in relation to its book
    value.

We apply significant judgment when determining the estimated
    fair value of the Company s reporting units and when
    assessing the relationship of market capitalization to the
    estimated fair value of its reporting units and their book
    value. The valuation methodologies utilized are subject to key
    judgments and assumptions that are sensitive to change.
    Estimates of fair value are inherently uncertain and represent
    only management s reasonable expectation regarding future
    developments. These estimates and the judgments and assumptions
    upon which the estimates are based will, in all likelihood,
    differ in some respects from actual future results. Declines in
    the estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units
    could result in goodwill impairments in future periods which
    could materially adversely affect the Company s results of
    operations or financial position.

During our 2009 impairment tests of goodwill, we concluded that
    the fair values of all reporting units were in excess of their
    carrying values and, therefore, goodwill was not impaired.
    However, we continue to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Deteriorating or adverse market conditions for certain
    reporting units may have a significant impact on the estimated
    fair value of these reporting units and could result in future
    impairments of goodwill.

See Note 7 for further consideration of goodwill impairment
    testing during 2009.

Liability
    for Future Policy Benefits and Policyholder Account
    Balances  

The Company establishes liabilities for amounts payable under
    insurance policies, including traditional life insurance,
    traditional annuities and non-medical health insurance.
    Generally, amounts are payable over an extended period of time
    and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of
    future expected benefits to be paid reduced by the present value
    of future expected premiums. Such liabilities are established
    based on methods and underlying assumptions in accordance with
    GAAP and applicable actuarial standards. Principal assumptions
    used in the establishment of liabilities for future policy
    benefits are mortality, morbidity, policy lapse, renewal,
    retirement, disability incidence, disability terminations,
    investment returns, inflation, expenses and other contingent
    events as appropriate to the respective product type. Utilizing
    these assumptions, liabilities are established on a block of
    business basis.

Future policy benefit liabilities for participating traditional
    life insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of
    (i) net level premium reserves for death and endowment
    policy benefits (calculated based upon the non-forfeiture
    interest rate, ranging from 3% to 7% for domestic business and
    3% to 12% for international business, and mortality rates
    guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in
    such contracts); and (ii) the liability for terminal
    dividends.

Future policy benefits for non-participating traditional life
    insurance policies are equal to the aggregate of the present
    value of expected future benefit payments and related expenses
    less the present value of expected future net premiums.
    Assumptions as to mortality and persistency are based upon the
    Company s experience when the basis of

F-24

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the liability is established. Interest rate assumptions for the
    aggregate future policy benefit liabilities range from 2% to 8%
    for domestic business and 2% to 12% for international business.

Participating business represented approximately 6% and 8% of
    the Company s life insurance in-force, and 13% and 14% of
    the number of life insurance policies in-force, at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Participating
    policies represented approximately 28% and 28%, 27% and 27%, and
    31% and 30% of gross and net life insurance premiums for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Future policy benefit liabilities for individual and group
    traditional fixed annuities after annuitization are equal to the
    present value of expected future payments. Interest rate
    assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 2%
    to 11% for domestic business and 4% to 18% for international
    business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for non-medical health
    insurance are calculated using the net level premium method and
    assumptions as to future morbidity, withdrawals and interest,
    which provide a margin for adverse deviation. Interest rate
    assumptions used in establishing such liabilities range from 4%
    to 7% for domestic business and 2% to 9% for international
    business.

Future policy benefit liabilities for disabled lives are
    estimated using the present value of benefits method and
    experience assumptions as to claim terminations, expenses and
    interest. Interest rate assumptions used in establishing such
    liabilities range from 3% to 8% for domestic business and 2% to
    9% for international business.

Liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses for property
    and casualty insurance are included in future policyholder
    benefits and represent the amount estimated for claims that have
    been reported but not settled and claims incurred but not
    reported. Liabilities for unpaid claims are estimated based upon
    the Company s historical experience and other actuarial
    assumptions that consider the effects of current developments,
    anticipated trends and risk management programs, reduced for
    anticipated salvage and subrogation. The effects of changes in
    such estimated liabilities are included in the results of
    operations in the period in which the changes occur.

The Company establishes future policy benefit liabilities for
    minimum death and income benefit guarantees relating to certain
    annuity contracts and secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantees relating to certain life policies as follows:

Guaranteed minimum death benefit ( GMDB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of death
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance and
    recognizing the excess ratably over the accumulation period
    based on total expected assessments. The Company regularly
    evaluates estimates used and adjusts the additional liability
    balance, with a related charge or credit to benefit expense, if
    actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier
    assumptions should be revised. The assumptions used in
    estimating the GMDB liabilities are consistent with those used
    for amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability
    and risk. The assumptions of investment performance and
    volatility are consistent with the historical experience of the
    Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500
    Index. The benefit assumptions used in calculating the
    liabilities are based on the average benefits payable over a
    range of scenarios.

Guaranteed minimum income benefit ( GMIB ) liabilities
    are determined by estimating the expected value of the income
    benefits in excess of the projected account balance at any
    future date of annuitization and recognizing the excess ratably
    over the accumulation period based on total expected
    assessments. The Company regularly evaluates estimates used and
    adjusts the additional liability balance, with a related charge
    or credit to benefit expense, if actual experience or other
    evidence suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised.
    The assumptions used for estimating the GMIB liabilities are
    consistent with those used for estimating the GMDB liabilities.
    In addition, the calculation of guaranteed annuitization benefit
    liabilities incorporates an assumption for the percentage of the
    potential annuitizations that may be elected by the
    contractholder. Certain GMIBs have settlement features that
    result in a portion of that guarantee being accounted for as an
    embedded derivative and are recorded in policyholder account
    balances as described below.

F-25

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Liabilities for universal and variable life secondary guarantees
    and  paid-up 
    guarantees are determined by estimating the expected value of
    death benefits payable when the account balance is projected to
    be zero and recognizing those benefits ratably over the
    accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The
    Company regularly evaluates estimates used and adjusts the
    additional liability balances, with a related charge or credit
    to benefit expense, if actual experience or other evidence
    suggests that earlier assumptions should be revised. The
    assumptions used in estimating the secondary and
     paid-up 
    guarantee liabilities are consistent with those used for
    amortizing DAC, and are thus subject to the same variability and
    risk. The assumptions of investment performance and volatility
    for variable products are consistent with historical S P
    experience. The benefits used in calculating the liabilities are
    based on the average benefits payable over a range of scenarios.

The Company establishes policyholder account balances for
    guaranteed minimum benefits relating to certain variable annuity
    products as follows:

Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( GMWB )
    guarantee the contractholder a return of their purchase payment
    via partial withdrawals, even if the account value is reduced to
    zero, provided that the contractholder s cumulative
    withdrawals in a contract year do not exceed a certain limit.
    The initial guaranteed withdrawal amount is equal to the initial
    benefit base as defined in the contract (typically, the initial
    purchase payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The GMWB is an
    embedded derivative, which is measured at estimated fair value
    separately from the host variable annuity product.

Guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( GMAB ) and
    settlement features in certain GMIB described above provide the
    contractholder, after a specified period of time determined at
    the time of issuance of the variable annuity contract, with a
    minimum accumulation of their purchase payments even if the
    account value is reduced to zero. The initial guaranteed
    accumulation amount is equal to the initial benefit base as
    defined in the contract (typically, the initial purchase
    payments plus applicable bonus amounts). The GMAB is an embedded
    derivative, which is measured at estimated fair value separately
    from the host variable annuity product.

For GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB, the initial benefit base is
    increased by additional purchase payments made within a certain
    time period and decreases by benefits paid
     and/or 
    withdrawal amounts. After a specified period of time, the
    benefit base may also increase as a result of an optional reset
    as defined in the contract.

GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB are accounted for as embedded
    derivatives with changes in estimated fair value reported in net
    investment gains (losses).

At inception of the GMWB, GMAB and certain GMIB contracts, the
    Company attributes to the embedded derivative a portion of the
    projected future guarantee fees to be collected from the
    policyholder equal to the present value of projected future
    guaranteed benefits. Any additional fees represent
     excess  fees and are reported in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The fair values for these embedded derivatives are then
    estimated based on the present value of projected future
    benefits minus the present value of projected future fees. The
    projections of future benefits and future fees require capital
    market and actuarial assumptions including expectations
    concerning policyholder behavior. A risk neutral valuation
    methodology is used under which the cash flows from the
    guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios
    using observable risk free rates. Beginning in 2008, the
    valuation of these embedded derivatives includes an adjustment
    for the Company s own credit and risk margins for
    non-capital market inputs. The Company s own credit
    adjustment is determined taking into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt, as
    well as its claims paying ability. Risk margins are established
    to capture the non-capital market risks of the instrument which
    represent the additional compensation a market participant would
    require to assume the risks related to the uncertainties of such
    actuarial assumptions as annuitization, premium persistency,
    partial withdrawal and surrenders. The establishment of risk
    margins requires the use of significant management judgment.

F-26

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not
    limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market
    volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the
    Company s own credit standing; and variations in actuarial
    assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, and risk margins
    related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that
    could materially affect net income.

The Company periodically reviews its estimates of actuarial
    liabilities for future policy benefits and compares them with
    its actual experience. Differences between actual experience and
    the assumptions used in pricing these policies and guarantees,
    and in the establishment of the related liabilities result in
    variances in profit and could result in losses. The effects of
    changes in such estimated liabilities are included in the
    results of operations in the period in which the changes occur.

Policyholder account balances relate to investment-type
    contracts, universal life-type policies and certain guaranteed
    minimum benefits. Investment-type contracts principally include
    traditional individual fixed annuities in the accumulation phase
    and, non-variable group annuity contracts. Policyholder account
    balances for these contracts are equal to (i) policy
    account values, which consist of an accumulation of gross
    premium payments and investment performance; (ii) credited
    interest, ranging from 1% to 17% for domestic business and 1% to
    26% for international business, less expenses, mortality charges
    and withdrawals; and (iii) fair value adjustments relating
    to business combinations.

Other
    Policyholder Funds  

Other policyholder funds include policy and contract claims,
    unearned revenue liabilities, premiums received in advance,
    policyholder dividends due and unpaid and policyholder dividends
    left on deposit.

The liability for policy and contract claims generally relates
    to incurred but not reported death, disability, long-term care
    and dental claims, as well as claims which have been reported
    but not yet settled. The liability for these claims is based on
    the Company s estimated ultimate cost of settling all
    claims. The Company derives estimates for the development of
    incurred but not reported claims principally from actuarial
    analyses of historical patterns of claims and claims development
    for each line of business. The methods used to determine these
    estimates are continually reviewed. Adjustments resulting from
    this continuous review process and differences between estimates
    and payments for claims are recognized in policyholder benefits
    and claims expense in the period in which the estimates are
    changed or payments are made.

The unearned revenue liability relates to universal life-type
    and investment-type products and represents policy charges for
    services to be provided in future periods. The charges are
    deferred as unearned revenue and amortized using the
    product s estimated gross profits and margins, similar to
    DAC. Such amortization is recorded in universal life and
    investment-type product policy fees.

The Company accounts for the prepayment of premiums on its
    individual life, group life and health contracts as premium
    received in advance and applies the cash received to premiums
    when due.

Also included in other policyholder funds are policyholder
    dividends due and unpaid on participating policies and
    policyholder dividends left on deposit. Such liabilities are
    presented at amounts contractually due to policyholders.

Recognition
    of Insurance Revenue and Related Benefits  

Premiums related to traditional life and annuity policies with
    life contingencies are recognized as revenues when due from
    policyholders. Policyholder benefits and expenses are provided
    against such revenues to recognize profits over the estimated
    lives of the policies. When premiums are due over a
    significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits
    are provided, any excess profit is deferred and recognized into
    operations in a constant relationship to insurance in-force or,
    for annuities, the amount of expected future policy benefit
    payments.

F-27

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Premiums related to non-medical health and disability contracts
    are recognized on a pro rata basis over the applicable contract
    term.

Deposits related to universal life-type and investment-type
    products are credited to policyholder account balances. Revenues
    from such contracts consist of amounts assessed against
    policyholder account balances for mortality, policy
    administration and surrender charges and are recorded in
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees in the
    period in which services are provided. Amounts that are charged
    to operations include interest credited and benefit claims
    incurred in excess of related policyholder account balances.

Premiums related to property and casualty contracts are
    recognized as revenue on a pro rata basis over the applicable
    contract term. Unearned premiums, representing the portion of
    premium written relating to the unexpired coverage, are included
    in future policy benefits.

Premiums, policy fees, policyholder benefits and expenses are
    presented net of reinsurance.

The portion of fees allocated to embedded derivatives described
    previously is recognized within net investment gains (losses) as
    part of the estimated fair value of embedded derivatives.

Other
    Revenues  

Other revenues include, in addition to items described elsewhere
    herein, advisory fees, broker-dealer commissions and fees and
    administrative service fees. Such fees and commissions are
    recognized in the period in which services are performed. Other
    revenues also include changes in account value relating to
    corporate-owned life insurance ( COLI ). Under certain
    COLI contracts, if the Company reports certain unlikely adverse
    results in its consolidated financial statements, withdrawals
    would not be immediately available and would be subject to
    market value adjustment, which could result in a reduction of
    the account value.

Policyholder
    Dividends  

Policyholder dividends are approved annually by the insurance
    subsidiaries  boards of directors. The aggregate amount of
    policyholder dividends is related to actual interest, mortality,
    morbidity and expense experience for the year, as well as
    management s judgment as to the appropriate level of
    statutory surplus to be retained by the insurance subsidiaries.

Income
    Taxes  

The Holding Company and its includable life insurance and
    non-life insurance subsidiaries file a consolidated
    U.S. federal income tax return in accordance with the
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
     Code ). Non-includable subsidiaries file either
    separate individual corporate tax returns or separate
    consolidated tax returns.

The Company s accounting for income taxes represents
    management s best estimate of various events and
    transactions.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities are measured at the balance sheet date
    using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in
    the years the temporary differences are expected to reverse.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the
    existence of sufficient taxable income within the carryback or
    carryforward periods under the tax law in the applicable tax
    jurisdiction. Valuation allowances are established when
    management determines, based on available information, that it
    is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not
    be realized. Significant judgment is required in determining
    whether valuation

F-28

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

allowances should be established, as well as the amount of such
    allowances. When making such determination, consideration is
    given to, among other things, the following:

(i) 

future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary
    differences and carryforwards;

(ii) 

future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;

(iii) 

taxable income in prior carryback years; and

(iv) 

tax planning strategies.

The Company may be required to change its provision for income
    taxes in certain circumstances. Examples of such circumstances
    include when the ultimate deductibility of certain items is
    challenged by taxing authorities (See also Note 15) or
    when estimates used in determining valuation allowances on
    deferred tax assets significantly change or when receipt of new
    information indicates the need for adjustment in valuation
    allowances. Additionally, future events, such as changes in tax
    laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or
    regulations, could have an impact on the provision for income
    tax and the effective tax rate. Any such changes could
    significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
    financial statements in the year these changes occur.

The Company determines whether it is more-likely-than-not that a
    tax position will be sustained upon examination by the
    appropriate taxing authorities before any part of the benefit
    can be recorded in the financial statements. A tax position is
    measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than
    50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement.
    Unrecognized tax benefits due to tax uncertainties that do not
    meet the threshold are included within other liabilities and are
    charged to earnings in the period that such determination is
    made.

The Company classifies interest recognized as interest expense
    and penalties recognized as a component of income tax.

Reinsurance  

The Company enters into reinsurance agreements primarily as a
    purchaser of reinsurance for its various insurance products and
    also as a provider of reinsurance for some insurance products
    issued by third parties.

For each of its reinsurance agreements, the Company determines
    if the agreement provides indemnification against loss or
    liability relating to insurance risk in accordance with
    applicable accounting standards. The Company reviews all
    contractual features, particularly those that may limit the
    amount of insurance risk to which the reinsurer is subject or
    features that delay the timely reimbursement of claims.

For reinsurance of existing in-force blocks of long-duration
    contracts that transfer significant insurance risk, the
    difference, if any, between the amounts paid (received), and the
    liabilities ceded (assumed) related to the underlying contracts
    is considered the net cost of reinsurance at the inception of
    the reinsurance agreement. The net cost of reinsurance is
    recorded as an adjustment to DAC and recognized as a component
    of other expenses on a basis consistent with the way the
    acquisition costs on the underlying reinsured contracts would be
    recognized. Subsequent amounts paid (received) on the
    reinsurance of in-force blocks, as well as amounts paid
    (received) related to new business, are recorded as ceded
    (assumed) premiums and ceded (assumed) future policy benefit
    liabilities are established.

For prospective reinsurance of short-duration contracts that
    meet the criteria for reinsurance accounting, amounts paid
    (received) are recorded as ceded (assumed) premiums and ceded
    (assumed) unearned premiums and are reflected as a component of
    premiums and other receivables (future policy benefits). Such
    amounts are amortized through earned premiums over the remaining
    contract period in proportion to the amount of protection
    provided. For retroactive reinsurance of short-duration
    contracts that meet the criteria of reinsurance accounting,
    amounts paid (received) in excess of (which do not exceed) the
    related insurance liabilities ceded (assumed) are recognized
    immediately as a loss. Any gains on such retroactive agreements
    are deferred and recorded in other liabilities. The gains are
    amortized primarily using the recovery method.

F-29

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The assumptions used to account for both long and short-duration
    reinsurance agreements are consistent with those used for the
    underlying contracts. Ceded policyholder and contract related
    liabilities, other than those currently due, are reported gross
    on the balance sheet.

Amounts currently recoverable under reinsurance agreements are
    included in premiums and other receivables and amounts currently
    payable are included in other liabilities. Such assets and
    liabilities relating to reinsurance agreements with the same
    reinsurer may be recorded net on the balance sheet, if a right
    of offset exists within the reinsurance agreement. In the event
    that reinsurers do not meet their obligations to the Company
    under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, reinsurance
    balances recoverable could become uncollectible. In such
    instances, reinsurance recoverable balances are stated net of
    allowances for uncollectible reinsurance.

Premiums, fees and policyholder benefits and claims include
    amounts assumed under reinsurance agreements and are net of
    reinsurance ceded. Amounts received from reinsurers for policy
    administration are reported in other revenues.

If the Company determines that a reinsurance agreement does not
    expose the reinsurer to a reasonable possibility of a
    significant loss from insurance risk, the Company records the
    agreement using the deposit method of accounting. Deposits
    received are included in other liabilities and deposits made are
    included within other assets. As amounts are paid or received,
    consistent with the underlying contracts, the deposit assets or
    liabilities are adjusted. Interest on such deposits is recorded
    as other revenues or other expenses, as appropriate.
    Periodically, the Company evaluates the adequacy of the expected
    payments or recoveries and adjusts the deposit asset or
    liability through other revenues or other expenses, as
    appropriate.

Accounting for reinsurance requires extensive use of assumptions
    and estimates, particularly related to the future performance of
    the underlying business and the potential impact of counterparty
    credit risks. The Company periodically reviews actual and
    anticipated experience compared to the aforementioned
    assumptions used to establish assets and liabilities relating to
    ceded and assumed reinsurance and evaluates the financial
    strength of counterparties to its reinsurance agreements using
    criteria similar to that evaluated in the security impairment
    process discussed previously.

Cessions under reinsurance arrangements do not discharge the
    Company s obligations as the primary insurer.

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Certain subsidiaries of the Holding Company (the
     Subsidiaries ) sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various plans that provide defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefits covering eligible employees
    and sales representatives. A December 31 measurement date is
    used for all of the Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension
    and other postretirement benefit plans.

Pension benefits are provided utilizing either a traditional
    formula or cash balance formula. The traditional formula
    provides benefits based upon years of credited service and
    either final average or career average earnings. The cash
    balance formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which
    credit participants with benefits equal to a percentage of
    eligible pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually
    based upon the average annual rate of interest on
     30-year 
    Treasury securities, for each account balance. At
    December 31, 2008, virtually all the obligations are
    calculated using the traditional formula.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries, may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

F-30

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The projected pension benefit obligation ( PBO ) is
    defined as the actuarially calculated present value of vested
    and non-vested pension benefits accrued based on future salary
    levels. The accumulated pension benefit obligation
    ( ABO ) is the actuarial present value of vested and
    non-vested pension benefits accrued based on current salary
    levels. Obligations, both PBO and ABO, of the defined benefit
    pension plans are determined using a variety of actuarial
    assumptions, from which actual results may vary, as described
    below.

The expected postretirement plan benefit obligations
    ( EPBO ) represents the actuarial present value of all
    other postretirement benefits expected to be paid after
    retirement to employees and their dependents. Unlike for
    pensions, the EPBO is not recorded in the financial statements
    but is used in measuring the periodic expense. The accumulated
    postretirement plan benefit obligations ( APBO )
    represents the actuarial present value of future other
    postretirement benefits attributed to employee services rendered
    through a particular date and is the valuation basis upon which
    liabilities are established. The APBO is determined using a
    variety of actuarial assumptions, from which actual results may
    vary, as described below.

The Company recognizes the funded status of the PBO for pension
    plans and the APBO for other postretirement plans for each of
    its plans in the consolidated balance sheets. The actuarial
    gains or losses, prior service costs and credits and the
    remaining net transition asset or obligation that had not yet
    been included in net periodic benefit costs are charged, net of
    income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income.

Net periodic benefit cost is determined using management
    estimates and actuarial assumptions to derive service cost,
    interest cost, and expected return on plan assets for a
    particular year. Net periodic benefit cost also includes the
    applicable amortization of any prior service cost (credit)
    arising from the increase (decrease) in prior years 
    benefit costs due to plan amendments or initiation of new plans.
    These costs are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over
    the expected service years of employees whose benefits are
    affected by such plan amendments. Actual experience related to
    plan assets
     and/or  the
    benefit obligations may differ from that originally assumed when
    determining net periodic benefit cost for a particular period,
    resulting in gains or losses. To the extent such aggregate gains
    or losses exceed 10 percent of the greater of the benefit
    obligations or the market-related asset value of the plans, they
    are amortized into net periodic benefit cost over the expected
    service years of employees expected to receive benefits under
    the plans.

The obligations and expenses associated with these plans require
    an extensive use of assumptions such as the discount rate,
    expected rate of return on plan assets, rate of future
    compensation increases, healthcare cost trend rates, as well as
    assumptions regarding participant demographics such as rate and
    age of retirements, withdrawal rates and mortality. Management,
    in consultation with its external consulting actuarial firm,
    determines these assumptions based upon a variety of factors
    such as historical performance of the plan and its assets,
    currently available market and industry data and expected
    benefit payout streams. The assumptions used may differ
    materially from actual results due to, among other factors,
    changing market and economic conditions and changes in
    participant demographics. These differences may have a
    significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements and liquidity.

The Subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution savings and
    investment plans ( SIP ) for substantially all
    employees under which a portion of employee contributions is
    matched. Applicable matching contributions are made each payroll
    period. Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation cost
    for current matching contributions. As all contributions are
    transferred currently as earned to the SIP trust, no liability
    for matching contributions is recognized in the consolidated
    balance sheets.

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

As more fully described in Note 18, the Company grants
    certain employees and directors stock-based compensation awards
    under various plans that are subject to specific vesting
    conditions. The cost of all stock-based transactions is measured
    at fair value at grant date and recognized over the period
    during which a grantee is required

F-31

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

to provide goods or services in exchange for the award. Although
    the terms of the Company s stock-based plans do not
    accelerate vesting upon retirement, or the attainment of
    retirement eligibility, the requisite service period subsequent
    to attaining such eligibility is considered nonsubstantive.
    Accordingly, the Company recognizes compensation expense related
    to stock-based awards over the shorter of the requisite service
    period or the period to attainment of retirement eligibility. An
    estimation of future forfeitures of stock-based awards is
    incorporated into the determination of compensation expense when
    recognizing expense over the requisite service period.

Foreign
    Currency  

Balance sheet accounts of foreign operations are translated at
    the exchange rates in effect at each year-end and income and
    expense accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange
    prevailing during the year. The local currencies of foreign
    operations generally are the functional currencies unless the
    local economy is highly inflationary. Translation adjustments
    are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income
    or loss. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are
    reported as net investment gains (losses) in the period in which
    they occur.

Discontinued
    Operations  

The results of operations of a component of the Company that
    either has been disposed of or is classified as
     held-for-sale 
    are reported in discontinued operations if the operations and
    cash flows of the component have been or will be eliminated from
    the ongoing operations of the Company as a result of the
    disposal transaction and the Company will not have any
    significant continuing involvement in the operations of the
    component after the disposal transaction.

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

Basic earnings per common share are computed based on the
    weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
    period. The difference between the number of shares assumed
    issued and number of shares assumed purchased represents the
    dilutive shares. Diluted earnings per common share include the
    dilutive effect of the assumed: (i) exercise or issuance of
    stock-based awards using the treasury stock method;
    (ii) settlement of stock purchase contracts underlying
    common equity units using the treasury stock method; and
    (iii) settlement of accelerated common stock repurchase
    contracts. Under the treasury stock method, exercise or issuance
    of stock-based awards and settlement of the stock purchase
    contracts underlying common equity units is assumed to occur
    with the proceeds used to purchase common stock at the average
    market price for the period. See Notes 14, 18 and 20.

Litigation
    Contingencies  

The Company is a party to a number of legal actions and is
    involved in a number of regulatory investigations. Given the
    inherent unpredictability of these matters, it is difficult to
    estimate the impact on the Company s financial position.
    Liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has
    been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
    estimated. On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews
    relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation,
    regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies
    to be reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. It is possible that an adverse outcome in certain of
    the Company s litigation and regulatory investigations, or
    the use of different assumptions in the determination of amounts
    recorded, could have a material effect upon the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Separate
    Accounts  

Separate accounts are established in conformity with insurance
    laws and are generally not chargeable with liabilities that
    arise from any other business of the Company. Separate account
    assets are subject to general account claims only to the extent
    the value of such assets exceeds the separate account
    liabilities. Assets within the Company s separate accounts
    primarily include: mutual funds, fixed maturity and equity
    securities, mortgage

F-32

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

loans, derivatives, hedge funds, other limited partnership
    interests, short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents.
    The Company reports separately, as assets and liabilities,
    investments held in separate accounts and liabilities of the
    separate accounts if (i) such separate accounts are legally
    recognized; (ii) assets supporting the contract liabilities
    are legally insulated from the Company s general account
    liabilities; (iii) investments are directed by the
    contractholder; and (iv) all investment performance, net of
    contract fees and assessments, is passed through to the
    contractholder. The Company reports separate account assets
    meeting such criteria at their fair value which is based on the
    estimated fair values of the underlying assets comprising the
    portfolios of an individual separate account. Investment
    performance (including investment income, net investment gains
    (losses) and changes in unrealized gains (losses)) and the
    corresponding amounts credited to contractholders of such
    separate accounts are offset within the same line in the
    consolidated statements of operations. Separate accounts not
    meeting the above criteria are combined on a
     line-by-line 
    basis with the Company s general account assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses and the accounting for these
    investments is consistent with the methodologies described
    herein for similar financial instruments held within the general
    account.

The Company s revenues reflect fees charged to the separate
    accounts, including mortality charges, risk charges, policy
    administration fees, investment management fees and surrender
    charges.

Adoption
    of New Accounting Pronouncements   

Financial
    Instruments  

As more fully described in  Summary of Significant
    Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates, 
    effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted new OTTI
    guidance. This guidance amends the previously used methodology
    for determining whether an OTTI exists for fixed maturity
    securities, changes the presentation of OTTI for fixed maturity
    securities and requires additional disclosures for OTTI on fixed
    maturity and equity securities in interim and annual financial
    statements.

The Company s net cumulative effect adjustment of adopting
    the OTTI guidance was an increase of $76 million to
    retained earnings with a corresponding increase to accumulated
    other comprehensive loss to reclassify the noncredit loss
    portion of previously recognized OTTI losses on fixed maturity
    securities held at April 1, 2009. This cumulative effect
    adjustment was comprised of an increase in the amortized cost
    basis of fixed maturity securities of $126 million, net of
    policyholder related amounts of $10 million and net of
    deferred income taxes of $40 million, resulting in the net
    cumulative effect adjustment of $76 million. The increase
    in the amortized cost basis of fixed maturity securities of
    $126 million by sector was as follows:
    $53 million   ABS, $43 million  
    RMBS, $17 million   U.S. corporate
    securities and $13 million   CMBS.

As a result of the adoption of the OTTI guidance, the
    Company s pre-tax earnings for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 increased by $857 million, offset by
    an increase in other comprehensive loss representing OTTI
    relating to noncredit losses recognized during the year ended
    December 31, 2009.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on
    disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging. This
    guidance requires enhanced qualitative disclosures about
    objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative
    disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on
    derivative instruments and disclosures about credit risk-related
    contingent features in derivative agreements. The Company has
    provided all of the material disclosures in its consolidated
    financial statements.

The following new pronouncements relating to financial
    instruments had no material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements:

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
    prospectively an update on accounting for transfers of financial
    assets and repurchase financing transactions. This update
    provides guidance for evaluating whether to account for a
    transfer of a financial asset and repurchase financing as a
    single transaction or as two separate transactions.

F-33

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted new
    guidance on the recognition of interest income and impairment on
    purchased beneficial interests and beneficial interests that
    continue to be held by a transferor in securitized financial
    assets. This new guidance more closely aligns the determination
    of whether an OTTI has occurred for a beneficial interest in a
    securitized financial asset with the original guidance for fixed
    maturity securities classified as
     available-for-sale 
    or
     held-to-maturity. 

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted new guidance
    relating to application of the shortcut method of accounting for
    derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance
    permits interest rate swaps to have a non-zero fair value at
    inception when applying the shortcut method of assessing hedge
    effectiveness as long as the difference between the transaction
    price (zero) and the fair value (exit price), as defined by
    current accounting guidance on fair value measurements, is
    solely attributable to a bid-ask spread. In addition, entities
    are not precluded from applying the shortcut method of assessing
    hedge effectiveness in a hedging relationship of interest rate
    risk involving an interest bearing asset or liability in
    situations where the hedged item is not recognized for
    accounting purposes until settlement date as long as the period
    between trade date and settlement date of the hedged item is
    consistent with generally established conventions in the
    marketplace.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted new guidance
    that permits a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts
    recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral (a
    receivable) or the obligation to return cash collateral (a
    payable) against fair value amounts recognized for derivative
    instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same
    master netting arrangement that have been offset. This new
    guidance also includes certain terminology modifications. Upon
    adoption of this guidance, the Company did not change its
    accounting policy of not offsetting fair value amounts
    recognized for derivative instruments under master netting
    arrangements.

Business
    Combinations and Noncontrolling Interests  

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted revised
    guidance on business combinations and accounting for
    noncontrolling interests in the consolidated financial
    statements. Under this new guidance:

All business combinations (whether full, partial or
     step  acquisitions) result in all assets and
    liabilities of an acquired business being recorded at fair
    value, with limited exceptions.

Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred;
    restructuring costs associated with a business combination are
    generally expensed as incurred subsequent to the acquisition
    date.

The fair value of the purchase price, including the issuance of
    equity securities, is determined on the acquisition date.

Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business
    combination that arise from contingencies are recognized at fair
    value if the acquisition-date fair value can be reasonably
    determined. If the fair value is not estimable, an asset or
    liability is recorded if existence or incurrence at the
    acquisition date is probable and its amount is reasonably
    estimable.

Changes in deferred income tax asset valuation allowances and
    income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally
    affect income tax expense.

Noncontrolling interests (formerly known as  minority
    interests ) are valued at fair value at the acquisition
    date and are presented as equity rather than liabilities.

Net income (loss) includes amounts attributable to
    noncontrolling interests.

When control is attained on previously noncontrolling interests,
    the previously held equity interests are remeasured at fair
    value and a gain or loss is recognized.

F-34

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a
    change in control are accounted for as equity transactions.

When control is lost in a partial disposition, realized gains or
    losses are recorded on equity ownership sold and the remaining
    ownership interest is remeasured and holding gains or losses are
    recognized.

The adoption of this guidance on a prospective basis did not
    have an impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. Financial statements and disclosures for periods
    prior to 2009 reflect the retrospective application of the
    accounting for noncontrolling interests as required under this
    guidance.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
    prospectively new guidance on determination of the useful life
    of intangible assets. This guidance amends the factors that
    should be considered in developing renewal or extension
    assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized
    intangible asset. This change is intended to improve the
    consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible
    asset and the period of expected future cash flows used to
    measure the fair value of the asset. The Company determines
    useful lives and provides all of the material disclosures
    prospectively on intangible assets acquired on or after
    January 1, 2009 in accordance with this guidance.

Fair
    Value  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted new fair
    value measurements guidance which defines fair value,
    establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value,
    establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the observability of
    inputs used to measure fair value, and requires enhanced
    disclosures about fair value measurements and applied this
    guidance prospectively to assets and liabilities measured at
    fair value. The adoption of this guidance changed the valuation
    of certain freestanding derivatives by moving from a mid to bid
    pricing convention as it relates to certain volatility inputs,
    as well as the addition of liquidity adjustments and adjustments
    for risks inherent in a particular input or valuation technique.
    The adoption of this guidance also changed the valuation of the
    Company s embedded derivatives, most significantly the
    valuation of embedded derivatives associated with certain
    guarantees on variable annuity contracts. The change in
    valuation of embedded derivatives associated with guarantees on
    annuity contracts resulted from the incorporation of risk
    margins associated with non-capital market inputs and the
    inclusion of the Company s own credit standing in their
    valuation. At January 1, 2008, the impact of adopting the
    guidance on assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair
    value was $30 million ($19 million, net of income tax)
    and was recognized as a change in estimate in the accompanying
    consolidated statement of operations where it was presented in
    the respective statement of operations caption to which the item
    measured at estimated fair value is presented. There were no
    significant changes in estimated fair value of items measured at
    fair value and reflected in accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss). The addition of risk margins and the
    Company s own credit spread in the valuation of embedded
    derivatives associated with annuity contracts may result in
    significant volatility in the Company s consolidated net
    income in future periods. The Company provided all of the
    material disclosures in Note 5.

In February 2007, the FASB issued guidance related to the fair
    value option for financial assets and financial liabilities.
    This guidance permits entities the option to measure most
    financial instruments and certain other items at fair value at
    specified election dates and to recognize related unrealized
    gains and losses in earnings. The fair value option is applied
    on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis upon adoption of the standard, upon the acquisition of an
    eligible financial asset, financial liability or firm commitment
    or when certain specified reconsideration events occur. The fair
    value election is an irrevocable election. Effective
    January 1, 2008, the Company elected the fair value option
    on fixed maturity and equity securities backing certain pension
    products sold in Brazil. Such securities are presented as
    trading securities in the consolidated balance sheets with
    subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net
    investment income. Previously, these securities were accounted
    for as
     available-for-sale 
    securities and unrealized gains and losses on these securities
    were recorded as a separate component of accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss). The Company s insurance joint
    venture in Japan also elected the fair value option for certain
    of its existing single premium deferred annuities and the assets
    supporting such

F-35

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

liabilities. The fair value option was elected to achieve
    improved reporting of the asset/liability matching associated
    with these products. Adoption of this guidance by the Company
    and its Japanese joint venture resulted in an increase in
    retained earnings of $27 million, net of income tax, at
    January 1, 2008. The election of the fair value option
    resulted in the reclassification of $10 million, net of
    income tax, of net unrealized gains from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings on
    January 1, 2008.

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted new guidance
    on: (i) estimating the fair value of an asset or liability
    if there was a significant decrease in the volume and level of
    trading activity for these assets or liabilities; and
    (ii) identifying transactions that are not orderly. The
    Company has provided all of the material disclosures in its
    consolidated financial statements. This adoption did not have
    any other material impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements.

The following new pronouncements relating to fair value had no
    material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements:

Effective September 30, 2008, the Company adopted new
    guidance relating to the fair value measurements of financial
    assets when the market for those assets is not active. It
    provides guidance on how a company s internal cash flow and
    discount rate assumptions should be considered in the
    measurement of fair value when relevant market data does not
    exist, how observable market information in an inactive market
    affects fair value measurement and how the use of market quotes
    should be considered when assessing the relevance of observable
    and unobservable data available to measure fair value.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company implemented fair
    value measurements guidance for certain nonfinancial assets and
    liabilities that are recorded at fair value on a non-recurring
    basis. This guidance applies to such items as:
    (i) nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities
    initially measured at estimated fair value in a business
    combination; (ii) reporting units measured at estimated
    fair value in the first step of a goodwill impairment test; and
    (iii) indefinite-lived intangible assets measured at
    estimated fair value for impairment assessment.

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
    prospectively guidance on issuer s accounting for
    liabilities measured at fair value with a third-party credit
    enhancement. This guidance states that an issuer of a liability
    with a third-party credit enhancement should not include the
    effect of the credit enhancement in the fair value measurement
    of the liability. In addition, it requires disclosures about the
    existence of any third-party credit enhancement related to
    liabilities that are measured at fair value.

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted new
    guidance on: (i) measuring the fair value of investments in
    certain entities that calculate NAV per share; (ii) how
    investments within its scope would be classified in the fair
    value hierarchy; and (iii) enhanced disclosure
    requirements, for both interim and annual periods, about the
    nature and risks of investments measured at fair value on a
    recurring or non-recurring basis.

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted new
    guidance on measuring liabilities at fair value. This guidance
    provides clarification for measuring fair value in circumstances
    in which a quoted price in an active market for the identical
    liability is not available. In such circumstances a company is
    required to measure fair value using either a valuation
    technique that uses: (i) the quoted price of the identical
    liability when traded as an asset; or (ii) quoted prices
    for similar liabilities or similar liabilities when traded as
    assets; or (iii) another valuation technique that is
    consistent with the principles of fair value measurement such as
    an income approach (e.g., present value technique) or a market
    approach (e.g.,  entry  value technique).

F-36

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Defined
    Benefit and Other Postretirement Plans  

Effective December 31, 2009, the Company adopted new
    guidance to enhance the transparency surrounding the types of
    assets and associated risks in an employer s defined
    benefit pension or other postretirement benefit plans. This
    guidance requires an employer to disclose information about the
    valuation of plan assets similar to that required under other
    fair value disclosure guidance. The Company provided all of the
    material disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

Other
    Pronouncements  

Effective April 1, 2009, the Company adopted prospectively
    new guidance which establishes general standards for accounting
    and disclosures of events that occur subsequent to the balance
    sheet date but before financial statements are issued or
    available to be issued. The Company has provided all of the
    required disclosures in its consolidated financial statements.

Effective December 31, 2008, the Company adopted new
    guidance relating to disclosures by public entities about
    transfers of financial assets and interests in VIEs. This
    guidance requires additional qualitative and quantitative
    disclosures about a transferors  continuing involvement in
    transferred financial assets and involvement in VIEs. The exact
    nature of the additional required VIE disclosures vary and
    depend on whether or not the VIE is a qualifying special purpose
    entity ( QSPE ). For VIEs that are QSPEs, the
    additional disclosures are only required for a non-transferor
    sponsor holding a variable interest or a non-transferor servicer
    holding a significant variable interest. For VIEs that are not
    QSPEs, the additional disclosures are only required if the
    Company is the primary beneficiary, and if not the primary
    beneficiary, only if the Company holds a significant variable
    interest in the VIE or is its sponsor. The Company provided all
    of the material disclosures in its consolidated financial
    statements.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted new guidance
    on income taxes. This guidance clarifies the accounting for
    uncertainty in income tax recognized in a company s
    financial statements. It requires companies to determine whether
    it is  more likely than not  that a tax position will
    be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing
    authorities before any part of the benefit can be recorded in
    the financial statements. It also provides guidance on the
    recognition, measurement and classification of income tax
    uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties.
    Previously recorded income tax benefits that no longer meet this
    standard are required to be charged to earnings in the period
    that such determination is made. As a result of the
    implementation, the Company recognized a $35 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a
    $9 million decrease in the interest liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, as well as a $17 million
    increase in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and a
    $5 million increase in the interest liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits which are included in liabilities of
    subsidiaries
     held-for-sale. 
    The corresponding reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance
    of retained earnings was $37 million, net of
    $11 million of noncontrolling interests.

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted new guidance
    on accounting by insurance enterprises for DAC on internal
    replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than
    those specifically described in guidance relating to accounting
    and reporting by insurance enterprises for long-duration
    contracts and for realized gains and losses from the sale of
    investments. As a result of the adoption of the new guidance, if
    an internal replacement modification substantially changes a
    contract, then the DAC is written off immediately through income
    and any new deferrable costs associated with the new replacement
    are deferred. If a contract modification does not substantially
    change the contract, the DAC amortization on the original
    contract will continue and any acquisition costs associated with
    the related modification are immediately expensed. The adoption
    of this guidance resulted in a reduction to DAC and VOBA on
    January 1, 2007 and an acceleration of the amortization
    period relating primarily to the Company s group life and
    health insurance contracts that contain certain rate reset
    provisions. Prior to the adoption, DAC on such contracts was
    amortized over the expected renewable life of the contract. Upon
    adoption, DAC on such contracts is to be amortized over the rate
    reset period. The impact as of January 1, 2007 was a
    cumulative effect adjustment of $292 million, net of income
    tax of $161 million, which was recorded as a reduction to
    retained earnings.

F-37

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following new pronouncements had no material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements:

Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted guidance on
    determining whether an instrument (or embedded feature) is
    indexed to an entity s own stock. This guidance provides a
    framework for evaluating the terms of a particular instrument
    and whether such terms qualify the instrument as being indexed
    to an entity s own stock.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company adopted new guidance
    on written loan commitments recorded at fair value through
    earnings. It provides guidance on (i) incorporating
    expected net future cash flows when related to the associated
    servicing of a loan when measuring fair value; and
    (ii) broadening the SEC staff s view that
    internally-developed intangible assets should not be recorded as
    part of the fair value of a derivative loan commitment or to
    written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value
    through earnings. Internally-developed intangible assets are not
    considered a component of the related instruments.

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company prospectively
    adopted new guidance on the sale of real estate when the
    agreement includes a buy-sell clause. This guidance addresses
    whether the existence of a buy-sell arrangement would preclude
    partial sales treatment when real estate is sold to a jointly
    owned entity and concludes that the existence of a buy-sell
    clause does not necessarily preclude partial sale treatment
    under current guidance.

Future
    Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements   

In January 2010, the FASB issued new guidance that requires new
    disclosures about significant transfers in
     and/or  out
    of Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy and activity
    in Level 3 (Accounting Standards Update ( ASU )
     2010-06, 
     Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820):
    Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements ). In
    addition, this guidance provides clarification of existing
    disclosure requirements about (a) level of disaggregation
    and (b) inputs and valuation techniques. The update is
    effective for the first quarter of 2010. The Company is
    currently evaluating the impact of this guidance on its
    consolidated financial statements.

In June 2009, the FASB issued additional guidance related to
    financial instrument transfers (ASU
     2009-16, 
     Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Accounting for Transfers
    of Financial Assets)  and evaluation of VIEs for
    consolidation (ASU
     2009-17, 
     Consolidations (Topic 810): Improvements to Financial
    Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest
    Entities) . The guidance is effective for the first quarter
    of 2010:

The financial instrument transfer guidance eliminates the
    concept of a  QSPE,  eliminates the guaranteed
    mortgage securitization exception, changes the criteria for
    achieving sale accounting when transferring a financial asset
    and changes the initial recognition of retained beneficial
    interests. The guidance also requires additional disclosures
    about transfers of financial assets, including securitized
    transactions, as well as a company s continuing involvement
    in transferred financial assets. The Company does not expect the
    adoption of the new guidance to have a material impact on the
    Company s consolidated financial statements.

The consolidation guidance relating to VIEs changes the
    determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE from a
    quantitative model to a qualitative model. Under the new
    qualitative model, the primary beneficiary must have both the
    ability to direct the activities of the VIE and the obligation
    to absorb either losses or gains that could be significant to
    the VIE. The guidance also changes when reassessment is needed,
    as well as requires enhanced disclosures, including the effects
    of a company s involvement with VIEs on its financial
    statements. The Company does not expect the adoption of the new
    guidance to have a material impact on the Company s
    consolidated financial statements.

F-38

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2.    

Acquisitions
    and Dispositions  

2009
    Disposition   

On March 2, 2009, the Company sold Cova Corporation
    ( Cova ), the parent company of Texas Life Insurance
    Company ( Texas Life ) to a third-party for
    $130 million in cash consideration, excluding
    $1 million of transaction costs. The net assets sold were
    $101 million, resulting in a gain on disposal of
    $28 million, net of income tax. The Company also
    reclassified $4 million, net of income tax, of the 2009
    operations of Texas Life into discontinued operations in the
    consolidated financial statements. As a result, the Company
    recognized income from discontinued operations of
    $32 million, net of income tax, during the year ended
    December 31, 2009. See also Note 23.

2008
    Disposition   

In September 2008, the Company completed a tax-free split-off of
    its majority-owned subsidiary, Reinsurance Group of America,
    Incorporated ( RGA ). The Company and RGA entered into
    a recapitalization and distribution agreement, pursuant to which
    the Company agreed to divest substantially all of its 52%
    interest in RGA to the Company s stockholders. The
    split-off was effected through the following:

A recapitalization of RGA common stock into two classes of
    common stock   RGA Class A common stock and RGA
    Class B common stock. Pursuant to the terms of the
    recapitalization, each outstanding share of RGA common stock,
    including the 32,243,539 shares of RGA common stock
    beneficially owned by the Company and its subsidiaries, was
    reclassified as one share of RGA Class A common stock.
    Immediately thereafter, the Company and its subsidiaries
    exchanged 29,243,539 shares of its RGA Class A common
    stock   which represented all of the RGA Class A
    common stock beneficially owned by the Company and its
    subsidiaries other than 3,000,000 shares of RGA
    Class A common stock   with RGA for
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock.

An exchange offer, pursuant to which the Company offered to
    acquire MetLife common stock from its stockholders in exchange
    for all of its 29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common
    stock. The exchange ratio was determined based upon a ratio of
    the value of the MetLife and RGA shares during the
     three-day 
    period prior to the closing of the exchange offer. The
    3,000,000 shares of the RGA Class A common stock were
    not subject to the tax-free exchange.

As a result of completion of the recapitalization and exchange
    offer, the Company received from MetLife stockholders
    23,093,689 shares of the Holding Company s common
    stock with a market value of $1,318 million and, in
    exchange, delivered 29,243,539 shares of RGA s
    Class B common stock with a net book value of
    $1,716 million. The resulting loss on disposition,
    inclusive of transaction costs of $60 million, was
    $458 million. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company
    incurred $2 million, net of income tax, of additional costs
    related to this split-off. The 3,000,000 shares of RGA
    Class A common stock retained by the Company are marketable
    equity securities which do not constitute significant continuing
    involvement in the operations of RGA; accordingly, they have
    been classified within equity securities in the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company at a cost basis of
    $157 million which is equivalent to the net book value of
    the shares. The cost basis will be adjusted to fair value at
    each subsequent reporting date. The Company has agreed to
    dispose of the remaining shares of RGA within the next five
    years. In connection with the Company s agreement to
    dispose of the remaining shares, the Company also recognized, in
    its provision for income tax on continuing operations, a
    deferred tax liability of $16 million which represents the
    difference between the book and taxable basis of the remaining
    investment in RGA.

The impact of the disposition of the Company s investment
    in RGA is reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements as discontinued operations.

F-39

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2008
    Acquisitions   

During 2008, the Company made five acquisitions for
    $783 million. As a result of these acquisitions,
    MetLife s Insurance Products segment increased its product
    offering of dental and vision benefit plans, MetLife Bank within
    Banking, Corporate   Other entered the mortgage
    origination and servicing business and the International segment
    increased its presence in Mexico and Brazil. The acquisitions
    were each accounted for using the purchase method of accounting,
    and accordingly, commenced being included in the operating
    results of the Company upon their respective closing dates.
    Total consideration paid by the Company for these acquisitions
    consisted of $763 million in cash and $20 million in
    transaction costs. The net fair value of assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed totaled $527 million, resulting in
    goodwill of $256 million. Goodwill increased by
    $122 million, $73 million and $61 million in the
    International segment, Insurance Products segment and Banking,
    Corporate   Other, respectively. The goodwill is
    deductible for tax purposes. VOCRA, VOBA and other intangibles
    increased by $137 million, $7 million and
    $6 million, respectively, as a result of these
    acquisitions. Further information on VOBA, goodwill and VOCRA is
    provided in Notes 6, 7 and 8, respectively.

2007
    Acquisition and Dispositions   

In June 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 50% interest in
    a joint venture in Hong Kong, MetLife Fubon Limited
    ( MetLife Fubon ), for $56 million in cash,
    resulting in MetLife Fubon becoming a consolidated subsidiary of
    the Company. The transaction was treated as a step acquisition,
    and at June 30, 2007, total assets and liabilities of
    MetLife Fubon of $839 million and $735 million,
    respectively, were included in the Company s consolidated
    balance sheets. The Company s investment for the initial
    50% interest in MetLife Fubon was $48 million. The Company
    used the equity method of accounting for such investment in
    MetLife Fubon. The Company s share of the joint
    venture s results for the six months ended June 30,
    2007, was a loss of $3 million. The fair value of assets
    acquired and the liabilities assumed in the step acquisition at
    June 30, 2007, was $427 million and $371 million,
    respectively. No additional goodwill was recorded as a part of
    the step acquisition. As a result of this acquisition,
    additional VOBA and VODA of $45 million and
    $5 million, respectively, were recorded and both have a
    weighted average amortization period of 16 years. In June
    2008, the Company revised the valuation of certain long-term
    liabilities, VOBA and VODA based on new information received. As
    a result, the fair value of acquired insurance liabilities and
    VOBA were reduced by $5 million and $12 million,
    respectively, offset by an increase in VODA of $7 million.
    The revised VOBA and VODA have a weighted average amortization
    period of 11 years. Further information on VOBA and VODA is
    described in Notes 6 and 8, respectively.

In August 2007, MetLife Insurance Limited completed the sale of
    its annuities and pension businesses to a third-party for
    $25 million in cash consideration resulting in a gain upon
    disposal of $41 million, net of income tax.

In June 2007, the Company completed the sale of its Bermuda
    insurance subsidiary, MetLife International Insurance, Ltd.
    ( MLII ), to a third-party for $33 million in
    cash consideration, resulting in a gain upon disposal of
    $3 million, net of income tax. The net assets of MLII at
    disposal were $27 million. A liability of $1 million
    was recorded with respect to a guarantee provided in connection
    with this disposition and remains outstanding at
    December 31, 2009. Further information on guarantees is
    described in Note 16.

2009
    Disposition through Assumption Reinsurance   

On October 30, 2009, the Company completed the disposal,
    through assumption reinsurance, of substantially all of the
    insurance business of MetLife Canada, a wholly-owned indirect
    subsidiary, to a third-party. Pursuant to the assumption
    reinsurance agreement, the consideration paid by the Company was
    $259 million, comprised of cash of $14 million and
    fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans and other assets
    totaling $245 million. At the date of the assumption
    reinsurance agreement, the carrying value of insurance
    liabilities transferred was $267 million, resulting in a
    gain of $5 million, net of income tax. The gain was
    recognized in net investment gains (losses).

F-40

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

3.    

Investments  

Fixed
    Maturity and Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gain and loss, estimated fair value of the
    Company s fixed maturity and equity securities and the
    percentage that each sector represents by the respective total
    holdings for the periods shown. The unrealized loss amounts
    presented below at December 31, 2009 include the noncredit
    loss component of OTTI loss:

F-41

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

The Company has classified within the U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed securities caption certain corporate fixed
    maturity securities issued by U.S. financial institutions that
    were guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    ( FDIC ) pursuant to the FDIC s Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program ( FDIC Program ) of
    $407 million and $2 million at estimated fair value
    with unrealized gains (losses) of $2 million and less than
    ($1) million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. 

(2)  

At time of acquisition, the Company classifies perpetual
    securities that have attributes of both debt and equity as fixed
    maturity securities if the security has a punitive interest rate
     step-up 
    feature, as it believes in most instances this feature will
    compel the issuer to redeem the security at the specified call
    date. Perpetual securities that do not have a punitive interest
    rate  step-up 
    feature are classified as equity securities within
    non-redeemable preferred stock. Many of such securities have
    been issued by
     non-U.S. 
    financial institutions that are accorded Tier 1 and Upper
    Tier 2 capital treatment by their respective regulatory
    bodies and are commonly referred to as  perpetual hybrid
    securities.  The following table presents the perpetual
    hybrid securities held by the Company at: 

December 31, 

2009 

2008 

Estimated 

Estimated 

Classification 

Fair 

Fair 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

Sector Table 

Primary Issuers 

Value 

Value 

(In millions) 

Equity securities

Non-redeemable preferred stock

Non-U.S. financial institutions

$

988

$

1,224

Equity securities

Non-redeemable preferred stock

U.S. financial institutions

$

349

$

288

Fixed maturity securities

Foreign corporate securities

Non-U.S. financial institutions

$

2,626

$

2,110

Fixed maturity securities

U.S. corporate securities

U.S. financial institutions

$

91

$

46

F-42

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(3)  

The Company held $2.5 billion and $2.1 billion at
    estimated fair value of redeemable preferred stock which have
    stated maturity dates at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. These securities, commonly referred to as
     capital securities , are primarily issued by U.S.
    financial institutions, have cumulative interest deferral
    features and are included in the U.S. corporate securities
    sector within fixed maturity securities. 

(4)  

Equity securities primarily consist of investments in common and
    preferred stocks, including certain perpetual hybrid securities
    and mutual fund interests. Privately-held equity securities
    represented $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion at estimated
    fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

The Company held foreign currency derivatives with notional
    amounts of $9.1 billion to hedge the exchange rate risk
    associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities at
    both December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.

The following table presents selected information about certain
    fixed maturity securities held by the Company at:

(1)  

Based on rating agency designations and equivalent ratings of
    the NAIC, with the exception of non-agency RMBS held by the
    Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries. Non-agency RMBS
    held by the Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2009 are included based on final ratings from
    the revised NAIC rating methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009 (which may not correspond to rating
    agency designations). 

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   Summary.   The following
    section contains a summary of the concentrations of credit risk
    related to fixed maturity securities holdings.

F-43

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company is not exposed to any concentrations of credit risk
    of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    stockholders  equity, other than securities of the
    U.S. government, certain U.S. government agencies and
    certain securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, as
    well as securities of the Mexican government and certain Mexican
    government agencies. The Company s holdings in
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed
    maturity securities, as well as securities of the Mexican
    government and certain Mexican government agencies at estimated
    fair value were $25.4 billion and $21.3 billion; and
    $4.8 billion and $4.0 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   U.S. and Foreign Corporate
    Securities.   The Company maintains a diversified
    portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across
    industries and issuers. This portfolio does not have an exposure
    to any single issuer in excess of 1% of total investments. The
    tables below present the major industry types that comprise the
    corporate fixed maturity securities holdings, the largest
    exposure to a single issuer and the combined holdings in the ten
    issuers to which it had the largest exposure at:

(1)  

Includes U.S. Dollar-denominated debt obligations of foreign
    obligors and other foreign fixed maturity security investments. 

F-44

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   RMBS.   The table below
    presents the Company s RMBS holdings and portion rated
    Aaa/AAA and portion rated NAIC 1 at:

(1)  

Based on rating agency designations, without adjustment for the
    revised National Association of Insurance Commissioners
    ( NAIC ) methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009. 

(2)  

Based on rating agency designations and equivalent ratings of
    the NAIC, with the exception of non-agency RMBS held by the
    Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries. Non-agency RMBS
    held by the Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2009 are included based on final ratings from
    the revised NAIC rating methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009 (which may not correspond to rating
    agency designations). 

Collateralized mortgage obligations are a type of
    mortgage-backed security structured by dividing the cash flows
    of mortgages into separate pools or tranches of risk that create
    multiple classes of bonds with varying maturities and priority
    of payments. Pass-through mortgage-backed securities are a type
    of asset-backed security that is secured by a mortgage or
    collection of mortgages. The monthly mortgage payments from
    homeowners pass from the originating bank through an
    intermediary, such as a government agency or investment bank,
    which collects the payments, and for a fee, remits or passes
    these payments through to the holders of the pass-through
    securities.

Prime residential mortgage lending includes the origination of
    residential mortgage loans to the most credit-worthy borrowers
    with high quality credit profiles. Alternative residential
    mortgage loans ( Alt-A ) are a classification of
    mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower falls
    between prime and
     sub-prime. 
     Sub-prime 
    mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage
    loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. During 2009, there
    were significant ratings downgrades from investment grade to
    below investment grade for non-agency RMBS, both Alt-A and prime
    RMBS, contributing to the decrease in the percentage of RMBS
    with a Aaa/AAA rating to 80.9% at December 31, 2009 as
    compared to 92.3% at December 31, 2008, and a decrease in
    RMBS with a rating of NAIC 1 to 87.4% at December 31, 2009
    as compared to 95.8% at December 31, 2008. These downgrades
    also contributed to the substantial decrease presented below in
    the Company s Alt-A securities holdings rated Aa/AA or
    better or rated NAIC 1 as compared to December 31, 2008.

F-45

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the Company s investment in
    Alt-A RMBS by vintage year (vintage year refers to the year of
    origination and not to the year of purchase) and certain other
    selected data:

(1)  

Based on rating agency designations, without adjustment for the
    revised NAIC methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009. 

(2)  

Based on rating agency designations and equivalent ratings of
    the NAIC, with the exception of non-agency RMBS held by the
    Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries. Non-agency RMBS
    held by the Company s domestic insurance subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2009 are included based on final ratings from
    the revised NAIC rating methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009 (which may not correspond to rating
    agency designations). 

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   CMBS.   The Company s
    holdings in CMBS were $15.6 billion and $12.6 billion
    at estimated fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company had no exposure to CMBS index
    securities and holdings of commercial real estate collateralized
    debt obligations securities had an estimated fair value of
    $111 million and $121 million at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

F-46

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the Company s holdings of CMBS
    by rating agency designations and by vintage year at:

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Fixed Maturity
    Securities)   ABS.   The Company s
    holdings in ABS were $13.2 billion and $10.5 billion
    at estimated fair value at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company s ABS are diversified both by
    sector and by issuer.

F-47

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the types of and certain other
    information about ABS held by the Company at:

(1)  

Based on rating agency designations, without adjustment for the
    revised NAIC methodology which became effective
    December 31, 2009. 

(2)  

Based on rating agency designations and equivalent ratings of
    the NAIC, with the exception of non-agency RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries. Non-agency RMBS backed by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans held by the Company s domestic insurance
    subsidiaries at December 31, 2009 are included based on
    final ratings from the revised NAIC rating methodology which
    became effective December 31, 2009 (which may not
    correspond to rating agency designations). 

F-48

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following tables present the Company s holdings of ABS
    supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans by rating agency designations and by vintage year
    at:

The rating distribution of the Company s ABS supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans at December 31, 2009 using NAIC ratings are
    as follows: 69.1% NAIC 1, 4.2% NAIC 2, 12.2% NAIC 3, 6.2% NAIC
    4, 8.3% NAIC 5 and 0% NAIC 6.

Concentrations of Credit Risk (Equity
    Securities).   The Company is not exposed to any
    concentrations of credit risk in its equity securities holdings
    of any single issuer greater than 10% of the Company s
    stockholders  equity at December 31, 2009 and 2008.

F-49

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Maturities of Fixed Maturity Securities.   The
    amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity
    securities, by contractual maturity date (excluding scheduled
    sinking funds), are as follows:

Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities due to
    the exercise of call or prepayment options. Fixed maturity
    securities not due at a single maturity date have been included
    in the above table in the year of final contractual maturity.
    RMBS, CMBS and ABS are shown separately in the table, as they
    are not due at a single maturity.

Evaluating
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities for
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairment   

As described more fully in Note 1, the Company performs a
    regular evaluation, on a
     security-by-security 
    basis, of its
     available-for-sale 
    securities holdings in accordance with its impairment policy in
    order to evaluate whether such investments are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. As described more fully in Note 1, effective
    April 1, 2009, the Company adopted new OTTI guidance that
    amends the methodology for determining for fixed maturity
    securities whether an OTTI exists, and for certain fixed
    maturity securities, changes how the amount of the OTTI loss
    that is charged to earnings is determined. There was no change
    in the OTTI methodology for equity securities.

With respect to fixed maturity securities, the Company
    considers, amongst other impairment criteria, whether it has the
    intent to sell a particular impaired fixed maturity security.
    The Company s intent to sell a particular impaired fixed
    maturity security considers broad portfolio management
    objectives such as asset/liability duration management, issuer
    and industry segment exposures, interest rate views and the
    overall total return focus. In following these portfolio
    management objectives, changes in facts and circumstances that
    were present in past reporting periods may trigger a decision to
    sell securities that were held in prior reporting periods.
    Decisions to sell are based on current conditions or the
    Company s need to shift the portfolio to maintain its
    portfolio management objectives including liquidity needs or
    duration targets on asset/liability managed portfolios. The
    Company attempts to anticipate these types of changes and if a
    sale decision has been made on an impaired security, the
    security will be deemed
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired in the period that the sale decision was made and an
    OTTI loss will be recorded in earnings. In certain
    circumstances, the Company may determine that it does not intend
    to sell a particular security but that it is more likely than
    not that it will be required to sell that security before
    recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below amortized
    cost. In such instances, the fixed maturity security will be
    deemed
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired in the period during which it was determined more
    likely than not that the security will be required to be sold
    and an OTTI loss will be recorded in earnings. If the Company
    does not have the intent to sell (i.e., has not made the
    decision to sell) and it does not believe that it is more likely
    than not that it will be required to sell the security before
    recovery of its amortized cost, an impairment assessment is
    made, as described in Note 1. Prior to April 1, 2009,
    the Company s assessment of OTTI for fixed maturity
    securities was performed in the same manner as described below
    for equity securities.

F-50

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

With respect to equity securities, the Company considers in its
    OTTI analysis its intent and ability to hold a particular equity
    security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the
    recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than
    cost. Decisions to sell equity securities are based on current
    conditions in relation to the same broad portfolio management
    considerations in a manner consistent with that described above
    for fixed maturity securities.

With respect to perpetual hybrid securities, some of which are
    classified as fixed maturity securities and some of which are
    classified as equity securities, within non-redeemable preferred
    stock, the Company considers in its OTTI analysis whether there
    has been any deterioration in credit of the issuer and the
    likelihood of recovery in value of the securities that are in a
    severe and extended unrealized loss position. The Company also
    considers whether any perpetual hybrid securities with an
    unrealized loss, regardless of credit rating, have deferred any
    dividend payments.

Net
    Unrealized Investment Gains (Losses)   

The components of net unrealized investment gains (losses),
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), are
    as follows at:

Fixed maturity securities with noncredit OTTI losses in
    accumulated other comprehensive loss, as presented above of
    $859 million, includes $126 million related to the
    transition adjustment, $939 million ($857 million, net
    of DAC) of noncredit losses recognized in the year ended
    December 31, 2009 and $206 million of subsequent

F-51

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

increases in estimated fair value during the year ended
    December 31, 2009 on such securities for which a noncredit
    loss was previously recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss.

The changes in net unrealized investment gains (losses) are as
    follows:

Continuous
    Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale 
    by Sector   

The following tables present the estimated fair value and gross
    unrealized loss of the Company s fixed maturity and equity
    securities in an unrealized loss position, aggregated by sector
    and by length of time that the

F-52

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position.
    The unrealized loss amounts presented below at December 31,
    2009 include the noncredit component of OTTI loss. Fixed
    maturity securities on which a noncredit OTTI loss has been
    recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss are
    categorized by length of time as being  less than
    12 months  or  equal to or greater than
    12 months  in a continuous unrealized loss position
    based on the point in time that the estimated fair value
    initially declined to below the amortized cost basis and not the
    period of time since the unrealized loss was deemed a noncredit
    OTTI loss.

F-53

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-54

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Aging
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The following tables present the cost or amortized cost, gross
    unrealized loss, including the portion of OTTI loss on fixed
    maturity securities recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31, 2009, gross unrealized
    loss as a percentage of cost or amortized cost and number of
    securities for fixed maturity and equity securities where the
    estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or
    amortized cost by less than 20%, or 20% or more at:

F-55

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Equity securities with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more
    for twelve months or greater increased from none at
    December 31, 2008 to $138 million at December 31,
    2009. As shown in the section below   Evaluating
    Temporarily Impaired Available for Sale
    Securities ,    the $138 million of equity
    securities with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more for
    twelve months or greater at December 31, 2009 were
    investment grade non-redeemable preferred stock, of which
    $136 million were financial services industry investment
    grade non-redeemable preferred stock, of which 62% were rated A
    or better.

F-56

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Concentration
    of Gross Unrealized Loss and OTTI Loss for Fixed Maturity and
    Equity Securities
     Available-for-Sale    

The Company s gross unrealized losses related to its fixed
    maturity and equity securities, including the portion of OTTI
    loss on fixed maturity securities recognized in accumulated
    other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2009, of
    $10.8 billion and $29.8 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, were concentrated, calculated as a
    percentage of gross unrealized loss and OTTI loss, by sector and
    industry as follows:

Evaluating
    Temporarily Impaired
     Available-for-Sale 
    Securities   

The following table presents the Company s fixed maturity
    and equity securities with a gross unrealized loss of greater
    than $10 million, the number of securities, total gross
    unrealized loss and percentage of total gross unrealized loss at:

F-57

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The fixed maturity and equity securities, each with a gross
    unrealized loss greater than $10 million, decreased
    $10.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2009.
    These securities were included in the Company s OTTI review
    process. Based upon the Company s current evaluation of
    these securities in accordance with its impairment policy, the
    cause of the decline in, or improvement in, gross unrealized
    losses for the year ended December 31, 2009 being primarily
    attributable to improving market conditions, including narrowing
    of credit spreads reflecting an improvement in liquidity and the
    Company s current intentions and assessments (as applicable
    to the type of security) about holding, selling and any
    requirements to sell these securities, the Company has concluded
    that these securities are not
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired.

In the Company s impairment review process, the duration
    and severity of an unrealized loss position for equity
    securities is given greater weight and consideration than for
    fixed maturity securities. An extended and severe unrealized
    loss position on a fixed maturity security may not have any
    impact on the ability of the issuer to service all scheduled
    interest and principal payments and the Company s
    evaluation of recoverability of all contractual cash flows or
    the ability to recover an amount at least equal to its amortized
    cost based on the present value of the expected future cash
    flows to be collected. In contrast, for an equity security,
    greater weight and consideration is given by the Company to a
    decline in market value and the likelihood such market value
    decline will recover.

The following table presents certain information about the
    Company s equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    with a gross unrealized loss of 20% or more at December 31,
    2009:

In connection with the equity securities impairment review
    process at December 31, 2009, the Company evaluated its
    holdings in non-redeemable preferred stock, particularly those
    of financial services companies. The Company considered several
    factors including whether there has been any deterioration in
    credit of the issuer and the likelihood of recovery in value of
    non-redeemable preferred stock with a severe or an extended
    unrealized loss. The Company also considered whether any
    non-redeemable preferred stock with an unrealized loss,
    regardless of credit rating, have deferred any dividend
    payments. No such dividend payments were deferred.

With respect to common stock holdings, the Company considered
    the duration and severity of the unrealized losses for
    securities in an unrealized loss position of 20% or more; and
    the duration of unrealized losses for securities in an
    unrealized loss position of 20% or less in an extended
    unrealized loss position (i.e., 12 months or greater).

Future
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments will depend primarily on economic fundamentals,
    issuer performance (including changes in the present value of
    future cash flows expected to be collected), changes in credit
    rating, changes in collateral valuation, changes in interest
    rates and changes in credit spreads. If economic fundamentals
    and any of the above factors deteriorate, additional
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments may be incurred in upcoming quarters.

F-58

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net
    Investment Gains (Losses)   

As described more fully in Note 1, effective April 1,
    2009, the Company adopted new guidance on the recognition and
    presentation of OTTI that amends the methodology to determine
    for fixed maturity securities whether an OTTI exists, and for
    certain fixed maturity securities, changes how OTTI losses that
    are charged to earnings are measured. There was no change in the
    methodology for identification and measurement of OTTI losses
    charged to earnings for impaired equity securities.

The components of net investment gains (losses) are as follows:

Proceeds from sales or disposals of fixed maturity and equity
    securities and the components of fixed maturity and equity
    securities net investment gains (losses) are as follows:

(1)  

Other OTTI losses recognized in earnings include impairments on
    equity securities, impairments on perpetual hybrid securities
    classified within fixed maturity securities where the primary
    reason for the impairment was the severity and/or the duration
    of an unrealized loss position and fixed maturity securities
    where there is an intent to sell or it is more likely than not
    that the Company will be required to sell the security before
    recovery of the decline in estimated fair value. 

F-59

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company periodically disposes of fixed maturity and equity
    securities at a loss. Generally, such losses are insignificant
    in amount or in relation to the cost basis of the investment,
    are attributable to declines in estimated fair value occurring
    in the period of the disposition or are as a result of
    management s decision to sell securities based on current
    conditions, or the Company s need to shift the portfolio to
    maintain its portfolio management objectives. Investment gains
    and losses on sales of securities are determined on a specific
    identification basis.

Fixed maturity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings
    relates to the following sectors and industries:

Equity security OTTI losses recognized in earnings relates to
    the following sectors and industries:

F-60

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Credit
    Loss Rollforward   Rollforward of the Cumulative
    Credit Loss Component of OTTI Loss Recognized in Earnings on
    Fixed Maturity Securities Still Held for Which a Portion of the
    OTTI Loss was Recognized in Other Comprehensive
    Loss   

The table below presents a rollforward of the cumulative credit
    loss component of OTTI loss recognized in earnings on fixed
    maturity securities still held by the Company at
    December 31, 2009 for which a portion of the OTTI loss was
    recognized in other comprehensive loss:

Year Ended December 31, 2009 

(In millions) 

Balance, beginning of period

$

Credit loss component of OTTI loss not reclassified to other
    comprehensive loss in the cumulative effect transition adjustment

230

Additions:

Initial impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized on
    securities not previously impaired

311

Additional impairments   credit loss OTTI recognized
    on securities previously impaired

91

Reductions:

Due to sales (or maturities, pay downs or prepayments) during
    the period of securities previously credit loss OTTI impaired

(49

)

Due to increases in cash flows   accretion of previous
    credit loss OTTI

(2

)

Balance, end of period

$

581

Net
    Investment Income   

The components of net investment income are as follows:

F-61

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Amounts are presented net of changes in estimated fair value of
    derivatives related to economic hedges of the Company s
    investment in these equity method international joint
    investments that do not qualify for hedge accounting of ($143)
    million, $178 million and $12 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The current
    year losses were primarily attributable to losses on equity
    derivatives and losses on foreign currency derivatives (both of
    which are  used to hedge embedded derivative risk) due to
    improving equity markets in the current period and the U.S.
    Dollar weakening against several major foreign currencies. In
    addition, included in the equity in earnings of the joint
    ventures were losses attributable to the narrowing of the
    Company s own credit spread, which is included in the
    valuation of certain liabilities, including embedded
    derivatives, that are carried at estimated fair value.  

Securities
    Lending   

The Company participates in securities lending programs whereby
    blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity
    securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third
    parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. The
    Company generally obtains collateral in an amount equal to 102%
    of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned. Securities
    loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the
    transferee. The Company is liable to return to its
    counterparties the cash collateral under its control, the
    amounts of which by aging category are presented below.

Elements of the securities lending programs are presented below
    at:

(1)  

Open   meaning that the related loaned security could
    be returned to the Company on the next business day requiring
    the Company to immediately return the cash collateral. 

The estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash
    collateral on open at December 31, 2009 has been reduced to
    $3,193 million from $4,986 million at
    December 31, 2008. Of the $3,193 million of estimated
    fair value of the securities related to the cash collateral on
    open at December 31, 2009, $3,012 million were
    U.S. Treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities
    which, if put to the Company, can be immediately sold to satisfy
    the cash requirements. The remainder of the securities on loan,
    related to the cash collateral aged less than thirty days to
    ninety days or greater, was primarily U.S. Treasury, agency
    and government guaranteed securities, and very liquid RMBS. The
    reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash collateral
    consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including
    RMBS, ABS, U.S. corporate and foreign corporate securities).

F-62

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Security collateral on deposit from counterparties in connection
    with the securities lending transactions may not be sold or
    repledged, unless the counterparty is in default, and is not
    reflected in the consolidated financial statements.

Invested
    Assets on Deposit, Held in Trust and Pledged as
    Collateral   

The invested assets on deposit, invested assets held in trust
    and invested assets pledged as collateral are presented in the
    table below. The amounts presented in the table below are at
    estimated fair value for cash and cash equivalents, fixed
    maturity and equity securities and at carrying value for
    mortgage loans.

(1)  

The Company had investment assets on deposit with regulatory
    agencies consisting primarily of fixed maturity and equity
    securities. 

(2)  

The Company held in trust cash and securities, primarily fixed
    maturity and equity securities, to satisfy collateral
    requirements. 

(3)  

The Company has pledged certain investments, primarily fixed
    maturity securities, in connection with certain reinsurance
    transactions. 

(4)  

The Company has pledged fixed maturity securities and mortgage
    loans in support of its debt and funding agreements with the
    Federal Home Loan Bank of New York ( FHLB of NY ) and
    has pledged fixed maturity securities to the Federal Home Loan
    Bank of Boston ( FHLB of Boston ). The nature of these
    Federal Home Loan Bank arrangements is described in Note 8. 

(5)  

The Company has pledged certain agricultural real estate
    mortgage loans in connection with funding agreements with the
    Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation ( Farmer
    MAC ). The nature of the Farmer MAC arrangements is
    described in Note 8. 

(6)  

The Company has pledged qualifying mortgage loans and fixed
    maturity securities in connection with collateralized borrowings
    from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York s Term Auction
    Facility. The nature of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    arrangements is described in Note 11. 

(7)  

The Holding Company has pledged certain collateral in support of
    the collateral financing arrangements described in Note 12. 

F-63

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(8)  

Certain of the Company s invested assets are pledged as
    collateral for various derivative transactions as described in
    Note 4. 

(9)  

Certain of the Company s trading securities and cash and
    cash equivalents are pledged to secure liabilities associated
    with short sale agreements in the trading securities portfolio
    as described in the following section. 

See also the immediately preceding section  Securities
    Lending  for the amount of the Company s cash and
    invested assets received from and due back to counterparties
    pursuant to the securities lending program.

Trading
    Securities   

The Company has trading securities portfolios to support
    investment strategies that involve the active and frequent
    purchase and sale of securities, the execution of short sale
    agreements and asset and liability matching strategies for
    certain insurance products.

The table below presents certain information about the
    Company s trading securities portfolios:

(1)  

Includes interest and dividends earned on trading securities, in
    addition to the net realized gains (losses) and changes in
    estimated fair value subsequent to purchase, recognized on the
    trading securities and the related short sale agreement
    liabilities. 

F-64

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Mortgage
    Loans   

Mortgage loans, net of valuation allowances, are categorized as
    follows:

Mortgage Loans by Geographic Region and Property
    Type    The Company diversifies its mortgage loans
    by both geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. Mortgage loans are collateralized by properties
    primarily located in the United States. The carrying value of
    the Company s mortgage loans located in California, New
    York and Texas were 20%, 7% and 6% at December 31, 2009,
    respectively. Generally, the Company, as the lender, only loans
    up to 75% of the purchase price of the underlying real estate.
    Commercial mortgage loans at December 31, 2009 and 2008
    were $35,176 million and $36,197 million,
    respectively, or 68.1% and 72.9%, respectively, of total
    mortgage loans prior to valuation allowances. Net of valuation
    allowances

F-65

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

commercial mortgage loans were $34,587 million and
    $35,965 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009
    and 2008 and there was diversity across geographic regions and
    property types as shown below at:

Certain of the Company s real estate joint ventures have
    mortgage loans with the Company. The carrying values of such
    mortgage loans were $368 million and $372 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Information regarding valuation allowances on mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    is as follows:

F-66

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Impaired mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    consisted of the following:

Information about impaired loans, restructured loans, loans
    90 days or more past due and loans in foreclosure is as
    follows:

Real
    Estate Holdings   

Real estate holdings by type consisted of the following:

Related depreciation expense on real estate was
    $135 million, $136 million and $130 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. These amounts include $1 million, $1 million
    and $3 million of depreciation expense related to
    discontinued operations for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

F-67

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

There were no impairments recognized on real estate
     held-for-sale 
    for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007. Impairments of real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment 
    were $160 million and $20 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no
    impairments of real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment 
    for the year ended December 31, 2007. The carrying value of
    non-income producing real estate was $76 million and
    $28 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

The Company diversifies its real estate holdings by both
    geographic region and property type to reduce risk of
    concentration. The Company s real estate holdings are
    primarily located in the United States, and at December 31,
    2009, 23%, 13%, 11% and 10% were located in California, Florida,
    New York and Texas, respectively.

Real estate holdings were categorized as follows:

Other
    Limited Partnership Interests   

The carrying value of other limited partnership interests (which
    primarily represent ownership interests in pooled investment
    funds that principally make private equity investments in
    companies in the United States and overseas) was
    $5.5 billion and $6.0 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Included within other limited
    partnership interests were $1.0 billion and
    $1.3 billion, at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, of investments in hedge funds. Impairments of
    other limited partnership interests, principally cost method
    other limited partnership interests, were $354 million,
    $105 million and $4 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

F-68

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other
    Invested Assets   

The following table presents the carrying value of the
    Company s other invested assets by type at:

See Note 4 for information regarding the freestanding
    derivatives with positive estimated fair values. See the
    following section for the composition of leveraged leases and
    information on MSRs. Joint venture investments are accounted for
    on the equity method and represent the Company s investment
    in insurance underwriting joint ventures in Japan, Chile and
    China. Tax credit partnerships are established for the purpose
    of investing in low-income housing and other social causes,
    where the primary return on investment is in the form of tax
    credits, and are accounted for under the equity method or under
    the effective yield method. Funds withheld represent amounts
    contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with
    reinsurance agreements. Funding agreements represent
    arrangements where the Company has long-term interest bearing
    amounts on deposit with third parties and are generally stated
    at amortized cost.

Leveraged
    Leases  

Investment in leveraged leases, included in other invested
    assets, consisted of the following:

The Company s deferred income tax liability related to
    leveraged leases was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The rental
    receivables set forth above are generally due in periodic
    installments. The payment periods range from one to
    15 years, but in certain circumstances are as long as
    30 years.

F-69

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The components of net income from investment in leveraged leases
    are as follows:

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights  

The following table presents the carrying value and changes in
    capitalized MSRs, which are included in other invested assets:

The Company recognizes the rights to service residential
    mortgage loans as MSRs. MSRs are either acquired or are
    generated from the sale of originated residential mortgage loans
    where the servicing rights are retained by the Company. MSRs are
    carried at estimated fair value and changes in estimated fair
    value, primarily due to changes in valuation inputs and
    assumptions and to the collection of expected cash flows, are
    reported in other revenues in the period in which the change
    occurs. See also Note 5 for further information about how
    the estimated fair value of MSRs is determined and other related
    information.

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The Company invests in certain entities that are VIEs, as a
    passive investor holding a limited partnership interest, or as a
    sponsor or debt holder. The following table presents the total
    assets and total liabilities relating to VIEs for which the
    Company has concluded that it is the primary beneficiary and
    which are consolidated in the Company s financial
    statements at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Generally,
    creditors or beneficial interest holders

F-70

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

of VIEs where the Company is the primary beneficiary have no
    recourse to the general credit of the Company, as the
    Company s obligation to the VIEs is limited to the amount
    of its committed investment.

(1)  

See Note 12 for a description of the MetLife Reinsurance
    Company of South Carolina ( MRSC ) collateral
    financing arrangement. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, these
    assets are presented at estimated fair value and consist of the
    following: 

F-71

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company invests in certain entities that are VIEs, as a
    passive investor holding a limited partnership interest, or as a
    sponsor or debt holder. The following table presents the
    carrying amount and maximum exposure to loss relating to VIEs
    for which the Company holds significant variable interests but
    is not the primary beneficiary and which have not been
    consolidated at December 31, 2009 and 2008:

(1)  

The maximum exposure to loss relating to the fixed maturity
    securities
     available-for-sale 
    and equity securities
     available-for-sale 
    is equal to the carrying amounts or carrying amounts of retained
    interests. The maximum exposure to loss relating to the real
    estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests is
    equal to the carrying amounts plus any unfunded commitments.
    Such a maximum loss would be expected to occur only upon
    bankruptcy of the issuer or investee. For certain of its
    investments in other invested assets, the Company s return
    is in the form of tax credits which are guaranteed by a
    creditworthy third-party. For such investments, the maximum
    exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts plus any
    unfunded commitments, reduced by amounts guaranteed by third
    parties of $232 million and $278 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

As described in Note 16, the Company makes commitments to
    fund partnership investments in the normal course of business.
    Excluding these commitments, the Company did not provide
    financial or other support to investees designated as VIEs
    during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.

4.    

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

Accounting
    for Derivative Financial Instruments   

See Note 1 for a description of the Company s
    accounting policies for derivative financial instruments.

See Note 5 for information about the fair value hierarchy
    for derivatives.

Primary
    Risks Managed by Derivative Financial Instruments and
    Non-Derivative Financial Instruments   

The Company is exposed to various risks relating to its ongoing
    business operations, including interest rate risk, foreign
    currency risk, credit risk and equity market risk. The Company
    uses a variety of strategies to manage these risks, including
    the use of derivative instruments. The following table presents
    the notional amount, estimated

F-72

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

fair value and primary underlying risk exposure of the
    Company s derivative financial instruments, excluding
    embedded derivatives held at:

(1)  

The estimated fair value of all derivatives in an asset position
    is reported within other invested assets in the consolidated
    balance sheets and the estimated fair value of all derivatives
    in a liability position is reported within other liabilities in
    the consolidated balance sheets. 

(2)  

The estimated fair value of non-derivative hedging instruments
    represents the amortized cost of the instruments, as adjusted
    for foreign currency transaction gains or losses. Non-derivative
    hedging instruments are reported within policyholder account
    balances in the consolidated balance sheets. 

F-73

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the notional amount of derivative
    financial instruments by maturity at December 31, 2009:

Interest rate swaps are used by the Company primarily to reduce
    market risks from changes in interest rates and to alter
    interest rate exposure arising from mismatches between assets
    and liabilities (duration mismatches). In an interest rate swap,
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between fixed rate and floating rate
    interest amounts as calculated by reference to an agreed
    notional principal amount. These transactions are entered into
    pursuant to master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by the counterparty at each due date. The
    Company utilizes interest rate swaps in fair value, cash flow
    and non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company also enters into basis swaps to better match the
    cash flows from assets and related liabilities. In a basis swap,
    both legs of the swap are floating with each based on a
    different index. Generally, no cash is exchanged at the outset
    of the contract and no principal payments are made by either
    party. A single net payment is usually made by one counterparty
    at each due date. Basis swaps are included in interest rate
    swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes basis swaps
    in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Inflation swaps are used as an economic hedge to reduce
    inflation risk generated from inflation-indexed liabilities.
    Inflation swaps are included in interest rate swaps in the
    preceding table. The Company utilizes inflation swaps in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Implied volatility swaps are used by the Company primarily as
    economic hedges of interest rate risk associated with the
    Company s investments in mortgage-backed securities. In an
    implied volatility swap, the Company exchanges fixed payments
    for floating payments that are linked to certain market
    volatility measures. If implied volatility rises, the floating
    payments that the Company receives will increase, and if implied
    volatility falls, the floating payments that the Company
    receives will decrease. Implied volatility swaps are included in
    interest rate swaps in the preceding table. The Company utilizes
    implied volatility swaps in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company purchases interest rate caps and floors primarily to
    protect its floating rate liabilities against rises in interest
    rates above a specified level, and against interest rate
    exposure arising from mismatches between

F-74

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

assets and liabilities (duration mismatches), as well as to
    protect its minimum rate guarantee liabilities against declines
    in interest rates below a specified level, respectively. In
    certain instances, the Company locks in the economic impact of
    existing purchased caps and floors by entering into offsetting
    written caps and floors. The Company utilizes interest rate caps
    and floors in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

In exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures
    transactions, the Company agrees to purchase or sell a specified
    number of contracts, the value of which is determined by the
    different classes of interest rate securities, and to post
    variation margin on a daily basis in an amount equal to the
    difference in the daily market values of those contracts. The
    Company enters into exchange-traded futures with regulated
    futures commission merchants that are members of the exchange.
    Exchange-traded interest rate (Treasury and swap) futures are
    used primarily to hedge mismatches between the duration of
    assets in a portfolio and the duration of liabilities supported
    by those assets, to hedge against changes in value of securities
    the Company owns or anticipates acquiring and to hedge against
    changes in interest rates on anticipated liability issuances by
    replicating Treasury or swap curve performance. The Company
    utilizes exchange-traded interest rate futures in non-qualifying
    hedging relationships.

Swaptions are used by the Company to hedge interest rate risk
    associated with the Company s long-term liabilities. A
    swaption is an option to enter into a swap with a forward
    starting effective date. In certain instances, the Company locks
    in the economic impact of existing purchased swaptions by
    entering into offsetting written swaptions. The Company pays a
    premium for purchased swaptions and receives a premium for
    written swaptions. Swaptions are included in interest rate
    options in the preceding table. The Company utilizes swaptions
    in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company writes covered call options on its portfolio of
    U.S. Treasuries as an income generation strategy. In a
    covered call transaction, the Company receives a premium at the
    inception of the contract in exchange for giving the derivative
    counterparty the right to purchase the referenced security from
    the Company at a predetermined price. The call option is
     covered  because the Company owns the referenced
    security over the term of the option. Covered call options are
    included in interest rate options in the preceding table. The
    Company utilizes covered call options in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

The Company enters into interest rate forwards to buy and sell
    securities. The price is agreed upon at the time of the contract
    and payment for such a contract is made at a specified future
    date. The Company also uses interest rate forwards to sell to be
    announced securities as economic hedges against the risk of
    changes in the fair value of mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    and interest rate lock commitments. The Company utilizes
    interest rate forwards in cash flow and non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Interest rate lock commitments are short-term commitments to
    fund mortgage loan applications in process (the pipeline) for a
    fixed term at a fixed price. During the term of an interest rate
    lock commitment, the Company is exposed to the risk that
    interest rates will change from the rate quoted to the potential
    borrower. Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans
    that will be
     held-for-sale 
    are considered derivative instruments. Interest rate lock
    commitments are included in interest rate forwards in the
    preceding table. Interest rate lock commitments are not
    designated as hedging instruments.

A synthetic GIC is a contract that simulates the performance of
    a traditional guaranteed interest contract through the use of
    financial instruments. Under a synthetic GIC, the policyholder
    owns the underlying assets. The Company guarantees a rate return
    on those assets for a premium. Synthetic GICs are not designated
    as hedging instruments.

Foreign currency derivatives, including foreign currency swaps,
    foreign currency forwards and currency option contracts, are
    used by the Company to reduce the risk from fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates associated with its assets and
    liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The Company also
    uses foreign currency forwards and swaps to hedge the foreign
    currency risk associated with certain of its net investments in
    foreign operations.

In a foreign currency swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party to exchange, at specified intervals, the
    difference between one currency and another at a fixed exchange
    rate, generally set at inception,

F-75

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

calculated by reference to an agreed upon principal amount. The
    principal amount of each currency is exchanged at the inception
    and termination of the currency swap by each party. The Company
    utilizes foreign currency swaps in fair value, cash flow, net
    investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

In a foreign currency forward transaction, the Company agrees
    with another party to deliver a specified amount of an
    identified currency at a specified future date. The price is
    agreed upon at the time of the contract and payment for such a
    contract is made in a different currency at the specified future
    date. The Company utilizes foreign currency forwards in net
    investment in foreign operations and non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

The Company enters into currency option contracts that give it
    the right, but not the obligation, to sell the foreign currency
    amount in exchange for a functional currency amount within a
    limited time at a contracted price. The contracts may also be
    net settled in cash, based on differentials in the foreign
    exchange rate and the strike price. The Company uses currency
    options to hedge against the foreign currency exposure inherent
    in certain of its variable annuity products. The Company also
    uses currency options as an economic hedge of foreign currency
    exposure related to the Company s international
    subsidiaries. The Company utilizes currency options in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

The Company uses certain of its foreign currency denominated
    funding agreements to hedge portions of its net investments in
    foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates.
    Such contracts are included in non-derivative hedging
    instruments in the preceding table.

Swap spreadlocks are used by the Company to hedge invested
    assets on an economic basis against the risk of changes in
    credit spreads. Swap spreadlocks are forward transactions
    between two parties whose underlying reference index is a
    forward starting interest rate swap where the Company agrees to
    pay a coupon based on a predetermined reference swap spread in
    exchange for receiving a coupon based on a floating rate. The
    Company has the option to cash settle with the counterparty in
    lieu of maintaining the swap after the effective date. The
    Company utilizes swap spreadlocks in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Certain credit default swaps are used by the Company to hedge
    against credit-related changes in the value of its investments
    and to diversify its credit risk exposure in certain portfolios.
    In a credit default swap transaction, the Company agrees with
    another party, at specified intervals, to pay a premium to hedge
    credit risk. If a credit event, as defined by the contract,
    occurs, generally the contract will require the swap to be
    settled gross by the delivery of par quantities of the
    referenced investment equal to the specified swap notional in
    exchange for the payment of cash amounts by the counterparty
    equal to the par value of the investment surrendered. The
    Company utilizes credit default swaps in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

Credit default swaps are also used to synthetically create
    investments that are either more expensive to acquire or
    otherwise unavailable in the cash markets. These transactions
    are a combination of a derivative and a cash instrument such as
    a U.S. Treasury or Agency security. The Company also enters
    into certain credit default swaps held in relation to trading
    portfolios for the purpose of generating profits on short-term
    differences in price. These credit default swaps are not
    designated as hedging instruments.

The Company enters into forwards to lock in the price to be paid
    for forward purchases of certain securities. The price is agreed
    upon at the time of the contract and payment for the contract is
    made at a specified future date. When the primary purpose of
    entering into these transactions is to hedge against the risk of
    changes in purchase price due to changes in credit spreads, the
    Company designates these as credit forwards. The Company
    utilizes credit forwards in cash flow hedging relationships.

In exchange-traded equity futures transactions, the Company
    agrees to purchase or sell a specified number of contracts, the
    value of which is determined by the different classes of equity
    securities, and to post variation margin on a daily basis in an
    amount equal to the difference in the daily market values of
    those contracts. The Company enters into exchange-traded futures
    with regulated futures commission merchants that are members of
    the exchange. Exchange-traded equity futures are used primarily
    to hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity
    products offered by the Company. The Company utilizes
    exchange-traded equity futures in non-qualifying hedging
    relationships.

F-76

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Equity index options are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. To hedge against adverse changes in
    equity indices, the Company enters into contracts to sell the
    equity index within a limited time at a contracted price. The
    contracts will be net settled in cash based on differentials in
    the indices at the time of exercise and the strike price. In
    certain instances, the Company may enter into a combination of
    transactions to hedge adverse changes in equity indices within a
    pre-determined range through the purchase and sale of options.
    Equity index options are included in equity options in the
    preceding table. The Company utilizes equity index options in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Equity variance swaps are used by the Company primarily to hedge
    minimum guarantees embedded in certain variable annuity products
    offered by the Company. In an equity variance swap, the Company
    agrees with another party to exchange amounts in the future,
    based on changes in equity volatility over a defined period.
    Equity variance swaps are included in variance swaps in the
    preceding table. The Company utilizes equity variance swaps in
    non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Total rate of return swaps ( TRRs ) are swaps whereby
    the Company agrees with another party to exchange, at specified
    intervals, the difference between the economic risk and reward
    of an asset or a market index and LIBOR, calculated by reference
    to an agreed notional principal amount. No cash is exchanged at
    the outset of the contract. Cash is paid and received over the
    life of the contract based on the terms of the swap. These
    transactions are entered into pursuant to master agreements that
    provide for a single net payment to be made by the counterparty
    at each due date. The Company uses TRRs to hedge its equity
    market guarantees in certain of its insurance products. TRRs can
    be used as hedges or to synthetically create investments. The
    Company utilizes TRRs in non-qualifying hedging relationships.

Hedging   

The following table presents the notional amount and estimated
    fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments by
    type of hedge designation at:

F-77

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the notional amount and estimated
    fair value of derivatives that are not designated or do not
    qualify as hedging instruments by derivative type at:

The following table presents the settlement payments recorded in
    income for the:

Fair
    Value Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as fair
    value hedges when they have met the requirements of fair value
    hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate
    investments to floating rate

F-78

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

investments; (ii) interest rate swaps to convert fixed rate
    liabilities to floating rate liabilities; and (iii) foreign
    currency swaps to hedge the foreign currency fair value exposure
    of foreign currency denominated investments and liabilities.

The Company recognizes gains and losses on derivatives and the
    related hedged items in fair value hedges within net investment
    gains (losses). The following table represents the amount of
    such net investment gains (losses) recognized for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

(1)  

Fixed rate liabilities 

(2)  

Fixed rate or floating rate liabilities 

All components of each derivative s gain or loss were
    included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.

Cash
    Flow Hedges   

The Company designates and accounts for the following as cash
    flow hedges when they have met the requirements of cash flow
    hedging: (i) interest rate swaps to convert floating rate
    investments to fixed rate investments; (ii) interest rate
    swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate
    liabilities; (iii) foreign currency swaps to hedge the
    foreign currency cash flow exposure of foreign currency
    denominated investments and liabilities; (iv) interest rate
    forwards and credit forwards to lock in the price to be paid for
    forward purchases of investments; and (v) interest rate
    swaps to hedge the forecasted purchases of fixed-rate
    investments.

For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    recognized $3 million of net investment losses which
    represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. For
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, the Company did
    not recognize any net investment gains (losses) which
    represented the ineffective portion of all cash flow hedges. All
    components of each derivative s gain or loss were included
    in the assessment of hedge effectiveness. In certain instances,
    the Company discontinued cash flow hedge accounting because the
    forecasted transactions did not occur on the anticipated date or
    within two months of that date. The net amounts reclassified
    into net investment losses for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007 related to such discontinued cash flow
    hedges were $7 million, $12 million and
    $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the
    maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging its
    exposure to variability in future cash flows for forecasted
    transactions does not exceed five years. There were no hedged
    forecasted transactions, other than the receipt or payment of
    variable interest payments for the years ended December 31,
    2008 and 2007.

F-79

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the components of other
    comprehensive income (loss), before income tax, related to cash
    flow hedges:

At December 31, 2009, $47 million of deferred net
    losses on derivatives accumulated in other comprehensive income
    (loss) is expected to be reclassified to earnings within the
    next 12 months.

The following table presents the effects of derivatives in cash
    flow hedging relationships on the consolidated statements of
    operations and the consolidated statements of stockholders 
    equity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

Hedges
    of Net Investments in Foreign Operations   

The Company uses foreign exchange contracts, which may include
    foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, to hedge portions
    of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse
    movements in exchange rates. The Company measures
    ineffectiveness on these contracts based upon the change in
    forward rates. In addition, the Company may also use
    non-derivative financial instruments to hedge portions of its
    net investments in foreign

F-80

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

operations against adverse movements in exchange rates. The
    Company measures ineffectiveness on non-derivative financial
    instruments based upon the change in spot rates.

When net investments in foreign operations are sold or
    substantially liquidated, the amounts in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to the consolidated
    statements of operations, while a pro rata portion will be
    reclassified upon partial sale of the net investments in foreign
    operations.

The following table presents the effects of derivatives and
    non-derivative financial instruments in net investment hedging
    relationships in the consolidated statements of operations and
    the consolidated statements of stockholders  equity for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

(1)  

During the year-ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    substantially liquidated, through assumption reinsurance (see
    Note 2), the portion of its Canadian operations that was
    being hedged in a net investment hedging relationship. As a
    result, the Company reclassified losses of $133 million
    from accumulated other comprehensive loss into earnings. During
    the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no
    sales or substantial liquidations of net investments in foreign
    operations that would have required the reclassification of
    gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive loss into
    earnings. 

(2)  

There was no ineffectiveness recognized for the Company s
    hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cumulative foreign
    currency translation gain (loss) recorded in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss related to hedges of net investments in
    foreign operations was ($40) million and $126 million,
    respectively.

Non-Qualifying
    Derivatives and Derivatives for Purposes Other Than
    Hedging   

The Company enters into the following derivatives that do not
    qualify for hedge accounting or for purposes other than hedging:
    (i) interest rate swaps, implied volatility swaps, caps and
    floors and interest rate futures to economically hedge its
    exposure to interest rates; (ii) foreign currency forwards,
    swaps and option contracts to economically hedge its exposure to
    adverse movements in exchange rates; (iii) credit default
    swaps to economically hedge exposure to adverse movements in
    credit; (iv) equity futures, equity index options, interest
    rate futures, TRRs and equity variance swaps to economically
    hedge liabilities embedded in certain variable annuity products;
    (v) swap spreadlocks to economically hedge invested assets
    against the risk of changes in credit spreads;
    (vi) interest rate forwards to buy and sell securities to
    economically hedge its exposure to interest rates;
    (vii) credit default swaps and TRRs to synthetically create
    investments; (viii) basis swaps to better match the cash
    flows of assets and related liabilities; (ix) credit
    default swaps held in relation to trading portfolios;
    (x) swaptions to hedge interest rate risk;
    (xi) inflation swaps to reduce risk generated from
    inflation-indexed liabilities; (xii) covered call options
    for income generation; (xiii) interest rate lock
    commitments; (xiv) synthetic GICs and (xv) equity
    options to economically hedge certain invested assets against
    adverse changes in equity indices.

F-81

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the amount and location of gains
    (losses) recognized in income for derivatives that are not
    designated or qualifying as hedging instruments:

(1)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    equity method investments in joint ventures, and changes in
    estimated fair value related to derivatives held in relation to
    trading portfolios. 

(2)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    variable annuity guarantees included in future policy benefits. 

(3)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to derivatives held in
    connection with the Company s mortgage banking activities. 

(4)  

Changes in estimated fair value related to economic hedges of
    foreign currency exposure associated with the Company s
    international subsidiaries. 

Credit
    Derivatives   

In connection with synthetically created investment transactions
    and credit default swaps held in relation to the trading
    portfolio, the Company writes credit default swaps for which it
    receives a premium to insure credit risk. Such credit
    derivatives are included within the non-qualifying derivatives
    and derivatives for purposes other than hedging table. If a
    credit event, as defined by the contract, occurs generally the
    contract will require the Company to pay the counterparty the
    specified swap notional amount in exchange for the delivery of
    par quantities of the referenced credit obligation. The
    Company s maximum amount at risk, assuming the value of all
    referenced credit obligations is zero, was $3,101 million
    and $1,875 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company can terminate these contracts at any
    time through cash settlement with the counterparty at an amount
    equal to the then current fair value of the credit default
    swaps. At December 31, 2009, the Company would have

F-82

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

received $53 million to terminate all of these contracts,
    and at December 31, 2008, the Company would have paid
    $37 million to terminate all of these contracts.

The Company has also entered into credit default swaps to
    purchase credit protection on certain of the referenced credit
    obligations in the table below. As a result, the maximum amounts
    of potential future recoveries available to offset the
    $3,101 million and $1,875 million from the table below
    were $31 million and $13 million at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table presents the
    estimated fair value, maximum amount of future payments and
    weighted average years to maturity of written credit default
    swaps at December 31, 2009 and 2008:

(1)  

The rating agency designations are based on availability and the
    midpoint of the applicable ratings among Moody s, S P
    and Fitch. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then
    the MetLife rating is used. 

(2)  

Assumes the value of the referenced credit obligations is zero. 

(3)  

The weighted average years to maturity of the credit default
    swaps is calculated based on weighted average notional amounts. 

F-83

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Credit
    Risk on Freestanding Derivatives   

The Company may be exposed to credit-related losses in the event
    of nonperformance by counterparties to derivative financial
    instruments. Generally, the current credit exposure of the
    Company s derivative contracts is limited to the net
    positive estimated fair value of derivative contracts at the
    reporting date after taking into consideration the existence of
    netting agreements and any collateral received pursuant to
    credit support annexes.

The Company manages its credit risk related to
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives by entering into transactions with creditworthy
    counterparties, maintaining collateral arrangements and through
    the use of master agreements that provide for a single net
    payment to be made by one counterparty to another at each due
    date and upon termination. Because exchange-traded futures are
    effected through regulated exchanges, and positions are marked
    to market on a daily basis, the Company has minimal exposure to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to such derivative instruments. See Note 1
    for a description of the impact of credit risk on the valuation
    of derivative instruments.

The Company enters into various collateral arrangements, which
    require both the pledging and accepting of collateral in
    connection with its derivative instruments. At December 31,
    2009 and 2008, the Company was obligated to return cash
    collateral under its control of $2,680 million and
    $7,758 million, respectively. This unrestricted cash
    collateral is included in cash and cash equivalents or in
    short-term investments and the obligation to return it is
    included in payables for collateral under securities loaned and
    other transactions in the consolidated balance sheets. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had also accepted
    collateral consisting of various securities with a fair market
    value of $221 million and $1,249 million,
    respectively, which are held in separate custodial accounts. The
    Company is permitted by contract to sell or repledge this
    collateral, but at December 31, 2009, none of the
    collateral had been sold or repledged.

The Company s collateral arrangements for its
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives generally require the counterparty in a net
    liability position, after considering the effect of netting
    agreements, to pledge collateral when the fair value of that
    counterparty s derivatives reaches a pre-determined
    threshold. Certain of these arrangements also include
    credit-contingent provisions that provide for a reduction of
    these thresholds (on a sliding scale that converges toward zero)
    in the event of downgrades in the credit ratings of the Company
     and/or  the
    counterparty. In addition, certain of the Company s netting
    agreements for derivative instruments contain provisions that
    require the Company to maintain a specific investment grade
    credit rating from at least one of the major credit rating
    agencies. If the Company s credit ratings were to fall
    below that specific investment grade credit rating, it would be
    in violation of these provisions, and the counterparties to the
    derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand
    immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on
    derivative instruments that are in a net liability position
    after considering the effect of netting agreements.

F-84

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
    Company s
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives that are in a net liability position after
    considering the effect of netting agreements, together with the
    estimated fair value and balance sheet location of the
    collateral pledged. The table also presents the incremental
    collateral that the Company would be required to provide if
    there was a one notch downgrade in the Company s credit
    rating at the reporting date or if the Company s credit
    rating sustained a downgrade to a level that triggered full
    overnight collateralization or termination of the derivative
    position at the reporting date. Derivatives that are not subject
    to collateral agreements are not included in the scope of this
    table.

Estimated 

Estimated 

Fair Value (1) of 

Fair Value of 

Derivatives in Net 

Collateral 

Liability Position 

Provided 

Fair Value of Incremental Collateral 

December 31, 2009 

December 31, 2009 

Provided Upon: 

Downgrade in the 

One Notch 

Company s Credit Rating 

Downgrade 

to a Level that Triggers 

in the 

Full Overnight 

Company s 

Collateralization or 

Fixed Maturity 

Credit 

Termination 

Securities (2) 

Rating 

of the Derivative Position 

(In millions) 

Derivatives subject to credit-contingent provisions

$

1,163

$

1,017

$

90

$

218

Derivatives not subject to credit-contingent provisions

48

42

Total

$

1,211

$

1,059

$

90

$

218

(1)  

After taking into consideration the existence of netting
    agreements. 

(2)  

Included in fixed maturity securities in the consolidated
    balance sheets. The counterparties are permitted by contract to
    sell or repledge this collateral. At December 31, 2009, the
    Company did not provide any cash collateral. 

Without considering the effect of netting agreements, the
    estimated fair value of the Company s
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives with credit-contingent provisions that were in a
    gross liability position at December 31, 2009 was
    $1,645 million. At December 31, 2009, the Company
    provided securities collateral of $1,017 million in
    connection with these derivatives. In the unlikely event that
    both: (i) the Company s credit rating is downgraded to
    a level that triggers full overnight collateralization or
    termination of all derivative positions; and (ii) the
    Company s netting agreements are deemed to be legally
    unenforceable, then the additional collateral that the Company
    would be required to provide to its counterparties in connection
    with its derivatives in a gross liability position at
    December 31, 2009 would be $628 million. This amount
    does not consider gross derivative assets of $488 million
    for which the Company has the contractual right of offset.

At December 31, 2008, the Company provided securities
    collateral for various arrangements in connection with
    derivative instruments of $776 million, which is included
    in fixed maturity securities. The counterparties are permitted
    by contract to sell or repledge this collateral.

The Company also has exchange-traded futures, which require the
    pledging of collateral. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
    Company pledged securities collateral for exchange-traded
    futures of $50 million and $282 million, respectively,
    which is included in fixed maturity securities. The
    counterparties are permitted by contract to sell or repledge
    this collateral. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company
    provided cash collateral for exchange-traded futures of
    $562 million and $686 million, respectively, which is
    included in premiums and other receivables.

F-85

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Embedded
    Derivatives   

The Company has certain embedded derivatives that are required
    to be separated from their host contracts and accounted for as
    derivatives. These host contracts principally include: variable
    annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, including GMWBs,
    GMABs and certain GMIBs; ceded reinsurance contracts of
    guaranteed minimum benefits related to GMABs and certain GMIBs;
    and funding agreements with equity or bond indexed crediting
    rates.

The following table presents the estimated fair value of the
    Company s embedded derivatives at:

The following table presents changes in estimated fair value
    related to embedded derivatives:

(1)  

Effective January 1, 2008, the valuation of the
    Company s guaranteed minimum benefits includes an
    adjustment for the Company s own credit. Included in net
    investment gains (losses) for the years ended December 31,
    2009 and 2008 were gains (losses) of ($1,932) million and
    $2,994 million, respectively, in connection with this
    adjustment. 

5.    

Fair
    Value  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company prospectively
    adopted the provisions of fair value measurement guidance.
    Considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market
    data to develop estimates of fair value and the use of different
    assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

F-86

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments   

Amounts related to the Company s financial instruments are
    as follows:

F-87

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Carrying values presented herein differ from those presented in
    the consolidated balance sheets because certain items within the
    respective financial statement caption are not considered
    financial instruments. Financial statement captions excluded
    from the table above are not considered financial instruments. 

(2)  

Derivative assets are presented within other invested assets and
    derivative liabilities are presented within other liabilities.
    At December 31, 2009 and 2008, certain non-derivative
    hedging instruments of $0 and $323 million,  

F-88

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

respectively, which are carried at amortized cost, are included
    with the liabilities total in Note 4 but are excluded from
    derivative liabilities here as they are not derivative
    instruments. 

(3)  

Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are
    presented within premiums and other receivables. Net embedded
    derivatives within liability host contracts are presented
    primarily within policyholder account balances. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, equity securities also included
    embedded derivatives of ($37) million and
    ($173) million, respectively. 

(4)  

Commitments are off-balance sheet obligations. Negative
    estimated fair values represent off-balance sheet liabilities. 

The methods and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
    financial instruments are summarized as follows:

Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities and Trading
    Securities    When available, the estimated fair
    value of the Company s fixed maturity, equity and trading
    securities are based on quoted prices in active markets that are
    readily and regularly obtainable. Generally, these are the most
    liquid of the Company s securities holdings and valuation
    of these securities does not involve management judgment.

When quoted prices in active markets are not available, the
    determination of estimated fair value is based on market
    standard valuation methodologies. The market standard valuation
    methodologies utilized include: discounted cash flow
    methodologies, matrix pricing or other similar techniques. The
    inputs in applying these market standard valuation methodologies
    include, but are not limited to: interest rates, credit standing
    of the issuer or counterparty, industry sector of the issuer,
    coupon rate, call provisions, sinking fund requirements,
    maturity and management s assumptions regarding estimated
    duration, liquidity and estimated future cash flows.
    Accordingly, the estimated fair values are based on available
    market information and management s judgments about
    financial instruments.

The significant inputs to the market standard valuation
    methodologies for certain types of securities with reasonable
    levels of price transparency are inputs that are observable in
    the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by
    observable market data. Such observable inputs include
    benchmarking prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted
    prices in markets that are not active and observable yields and
    spreads in the market.

When observable inputs are not available, the market standard
    valuation methodologies for determining the estimated fair value
    of certain types of securities that trade infrequently, and
    therefore have little or no price transparency, rely on inputs
    that are significant to the estimated fair value that are not
    observable in the market or cannot be derived principally from
    or corroborated by observable market data. These unobservable
    inputs can be based in large part on management judgment or
    estimation and cannot be supported by reference to market
    activity. Even though unobservable, these inputs are assumed to
    be consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing such securities and are considered appropriate given the
    circumstances.

The use of different methodologies, assumptions and inputs may
    have a material effect on the estimated fair values of the
    Company s securities holdings.

Mortgage Loans    The Company originates
    mortgage loans for both investment purposes and with the
    intention to sell them to third parties. Commercial and
    agricultural mortgage loans are originated for investment
    purposes and are primarily carried at amortized cost.
    Residential mortgage and consumer loans are generally purchased
    from third parties for investment purposes and are primarily
    carried at amortized cost. Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    consist principally of residential mortgage loans for which the
    Company has elected the fair value option and which are carried
    at estimated fair value and to a significantly lesser degree
    certain mortgage loans which were previously
     held-for-investment 
    but where the Company has changed its intention as it relates to
    holding them for investment. The estimated fair values of these
    mortgage loans are determined as follows:

Mortgage Loans
     Held-for-Investment    
    For mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    and carried at amortized cost, estimated fair value was
    primarily determined by estimating expected future cash flows
    and discounting them using current interest rates for similar
    mortgage loans with similar credit risk.

F-89

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Mortgage Loans
     Held-for-Sale   
     Mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    principally include residential mortgage loans for which the
    fair value option was elected and which are carried at estimated
    fair value. Generally, quoted market prices are not available
    for residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale; 
    accordingly, the estimated fair values of such assets are
    determined based on observable pricing of residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    with similar characteristics, or observable pricing for
    securities backed by similar types of mortgage loans, adjusted
    to convert the securities prices to mortgage loan prices. When
    observable pricing for similar loans or securities that are
    backed by similar loans are not available, the estimated fair
    values of residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    are determined using independent broker quotations, which is
    intended to approximate the amounts that would be received from
    third parties. Certain other mortgage loans previously
    classified as
     held-for-investment 
    have also been designated as
     held-for-sale. 
    For these mortgage loans, estimated fair value is determined
    using independent broker quotations or, when the mortgage loan
    is in foreclosure or otherwise determined to be collateral
    dependent, the fair value of the underlying collateral is
    estimated using internal models.

Policy Loans    For policy loans with fixed
    interest rates, estimated fair values are determined using a
    discounted cash flow model applied to groups of similar policy
    loans determined by the nature of the underlying insurance
    liabilities. Cash flow estimates are developed applying a
    weighted-average interest rate to the outstanding principal
    balance of the respective group of policy loans and an estimated
    average maturity determined through experience studies of the
    past performance of policyholder repayment behavior for similar
    loans. These cash flows are discounted using current risk-free
    interest rates with no adjustment for borrower credit risk as
    these loans are fully collateralized by the cash surrender value
    of the underlying insurance policy. The estimated fair value for
    policy loans with variable interest rates approximates carrying
    value due to the absence of borrower credit risk and the short
    time period between interest rate resets, which presents minimal
    risk of a material change in estimated fair value due to changes
    in market interest rates.

Real Estate Joint Ventures and Other Limited Partnership
    Interests    Real estate joint ventures and other
    limited partnership interests included in the preceding tables
    consist of those investments accounted for using the cost
    method. The remaining carrying value recognized in the
    consolidated balance sheets represents investments in real
    estate or real estate joint ventures and other limited
    partnership interests accounted for using the equity method,
    which do not meet the definition of financial instruments for
    which fair value is required to be disclosed.

The estimated fair values for other limited partnership
    interests and real estate joint ventures accounted for under the
    cost method are generally based on the Company s share of
    the NAV as provided in the financial statements of the
    investees. In certain circumstances, management may adjust the
    NAV by a premium or discount when it has sufficient evidence to
    support applying such adjustments.

Short-term Investments    Certain short-term
    investments do not qualify as securities and are recognized at
    amortized cost in the consolidated balance sheets. For these
    instruments, the Company believes that there is minimal risk of
    material changes in interest rates or credit of the issuer such
    that estimated fair value approximates carrying value. In light
    of recent market conditions, short-term investments have been
    monitored to ensure there is sufficient demand and maintenance
    of issuer credit quality and the Company has determined
    additional adjustment is not required. Short-term investments
    that meet the definition of a security are recognized at
    estimated fair value in the consolidated balance sheets in the
    same manner described above for similar instruments that are
    classified within captions of other major investment classes.

Other Invested Assets    Other invested assets
    in the consolidated balance sheets are principally comprised of
    freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values,
    leveraged leases, joint venture investments, investments in tax
    credit partnerships, investment in a funding agreement, MSRs,
    funds withheld at interest and various interest-bearing assets
    held in foreign subsidiaries. Leveraged leases and investments
    in tax credit partnerships and joint venture investments, which
    are accounted for under the equity method or under the effective
    yield method, are not financial instruments subject to fair
    value disclosure. Accordingly, they have been excluded from the
    preceding table.

The estimated fair value of derivatives   with
    positive and negative estimated fair values   is
    described in the section labeled  Derivatives  which
    follows.

F-90

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Although MSRs are not financial instruments, the Company has
    included them in the preceding table as a result of its election
    to carry MSRs at estimated fair value. As sales of MSRs tend to
    occur in private transactions where the precise terms and
    conditions of the sales are typically not readily available,
    observable market valuations are limited. As such, the Company
    relies primarily on a discounted cash flow model to estimate the
    fair value of the MSRs. The model requires inputs such as type
    of loan (fixed vs. variable and agency vs. other), age of loan,
    loan interest rates and current market interest rates that are
    generally observable. The model also requires the use of
    unobservable inputs including assumptions regarding estimates of
    discount rates, loan prepayments and servicing costs.

The estimated fair value of the investment in funding agreements
    is estimated by discounting the expected future cash flows using
    current market rates and the credit risk of the note issuer.

For funds withheld at interest and the various interest-bearing
    assets held in foreign subsidiaries, the Company evaluates the
    specific facts and circumstances of each instrument to determine
    the appropriate estimated fair values. These estimated fair
    values were not materially different from the recognized
    carrying values.

Cash and Cash Equivalents    Due to the
    short-term maturities of cash and cash equivalents, the Company
    believes there is minimal risk of material changes in interest
    rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair value
    generally approximates carrying value. In light of recent market
    conditions, cash and cash equivalent instruments have been
    monitored to ensure there is sufficient demand and maintenance
    of issuer credit quality, or sufficient solvency in the case of
    depository institutions, and the Company has determined
    additional adjustment is not required.

Accrued Investment Income    Due to the
    short-term until settlement of accrued investment income, the
    Company believes there is minimal risk of material changes in
    interest rates or credit of the issuer such that estimated fair
    value approximates carrying value. In light of recent market
    conditions, the Company has monitored the credit quality of the
    issuers and has determined additional adjustment is not required.

Premiums and Other Receivables    Premiums and
    other receivables in the consolidated balance sheets are
    principally comprised of premiums due and unpaid for insurance
    contracts, amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts,
    amounts on deposit with financial institutions to facilitate
    daily settlements related to certain derivative positions,
    amounts receivable for securities sold but not yet settled, fees
    and general operating receivables and embedded derivatives
    related to the ceded reinsurance of certain variable annuity
    guarantees.

Premiums receivable and those amounts recoverable under
    reinsurance treaties determined to transfer sufficient risk are
    not financial instruments subject to disclosure and thus have
    been excluded from the amounts presented in the preceding table.
    Amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance contracts, which the
    Company has determined do not transfer sufficient risk such that
    they are accounted for using the deposit method of accounting,
    have been included in the preceding table with the estimated
    fair value determined as the present value of expected future
    cash flows under the related contracts discounted using an
    interest rate determined to reflect the appropriate credit
    standing of the assuming counterparty.

The amounts on deposit for derivative settlements essentially
    represent the equivalent of demand deposit balances and amounts
    due for securities sold are generally received over short
    periods such that the estimated fair value approximates carrying
    value. In light of recent market conditions, the Company has
    monitored the solvency position of the financial institutions
    and has determined additional adjustments are not required.

Embedded derivatives recognized in connection with ceded
    reinsurance of certain variable annuity guarantees are included
    in this caption in the consolidated financial statements but
    excluded from this caption in the preceding table as they are
    separately presented. The estimated fair value of these embedded
    derivatives is described in the section labeled  Embedded
    Derivatives within Asset and Liability Host Contracts 
    which follows.

Other Assets    Other assets in the consolidated
    balance sheets are principally comprised of prepaid expenses,
    amounts held under corporate owned life insurance, fixed assets,
    capitalized software, deferred sales inducements, VODA, VOCRA
    and a receivable for cash paid to an unaffiliated financial
    institution under the MetLife Reinsurance Company of Charleston
    ( MRC ) collateral financing arrangement as described
    in Note 12. With

F-91

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

the exception of the receivable for cash paid to the
    unaffiliated financial institution, other assets are not
    considered financial instruments subject to disclosure.
    Accordingly, the amount presented in the preceding table
    represents the receivable for the cash paid to the unaffiliated
    financial institution under the MRC collateral financing
    arrangement for which the estimated fair value was determined by
    discounting the expected future cash flows using a discount rate
    that reflects the credit of the unaffiliated financial
    institution.

Separate Account Assets    Separate account
    assets are carried at estimated fair value and reported as a
    summarized total on the consolidated balance sheets. The
    estimated fair value of separate account assets are based on the
    estimated fair value of the underlying assets owned by the
    separate account. Assets within the Company s separate
    accounts include: mutual funds, fixed maturity securities,
    equity securities, mortgage loans, derivatives, hedge funds,
    other limited partnership interests, short-term investments and
    cash and cash equivalents. The estimated fair value of mutual
    funds is based upon quoted prices or reported NAVs provided by
    the fund manager. Accounting guidance effective for
    December 31, 2009 clarified how investments that use NAV as
    a practical expedient for their fair value measurement are
    classified in the fair value hierarchy. As a result, the Company
    has included certain mutual funds in the amount of
    $96.2 billion in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy
    which were previously included in Level 1. The estimated
    fair values of fixed maturity securities, equity securities,
    derivatives, short-term investments and cash and cash
    equivalents held by separate accounts are determined on a basis
    consistent with the methodologies described herein for similar
    financial instruments held within the general account. The
    estimated fair value of hedge funds is based upon NAVs provided
    by the fund manager. The estimated fair value of mortgage loans
    is determined by discounting expected future cash flows, using
    current interest rates for similar loans with similar credit
    risk. Other limited partnership interests are valued giving
    consideration to the value of the underlying holdings of the
    partnerships and by applying a premium or discount, if
    appropriate, for factors such as liquidity, bid/ask spreads, the
    performance record of the fund manager or other relevant
    variables which may impact the exit value of the particular
    partnership interest.

Policyholder Account Balances    Policyholder
    account balances in the table above include investment
    contracts. Embedded derivatives on investment contracts and
    certain variable annuity guarantees accounted for as embedded
    derivatives are included in this caption in the consolidated
    financial statements but excluded from this caption in the
    tables above as they are separately presented therein. The
    remaining difference between the amounts reflected as
    policyholder account balances in the preceding table and those
    recognized in the consolidated balance sheets represents those
    amounts due under contracts that satisfy the definition of
    insurance contracts and are not considered financial instruments.

The investment contracts primarily include certain funding
    agreements, fixed deferred annuities, modified guaranteed
    annuities, fixed term payout annuities and total control
    accounts. The fair values for these investment contracts are
    estimated by discounting best estimate future cash flows using
    current market risk-free interest rates and adding a spread for
    the Company s own credit which is determined using publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt, as
    well as its claims paying ability.

Bank Deposits    Due to frequency of interest
    rate resets on customer bank deposits held in money market
    accounts, the Company believes that there is minimal risk of a
    material change in interest rates such that the estimated fair
    value approximates carrying value. For time deposits, estimated
    fair values are estimated by discounting the expected cash flows
    to maturity using a discount rate based on an average market
    rate for certificates of deposit being offered by a
    representative group of large financial institutions at the date
    of the valuation.

Short-term and Long-term Debt, Collateral Financing
    Arrangements and Junior Subordinated Debt
    Securities    The estimated fair value for
    short-term debt approximates carrying value due to the
    short-term nature of these obligations. The estimated fair
    values of long-term debt, collateral financing arrangements and
    junior subordinated debt securities are generally determined by
    discounting expected future cash flows using market rates
    currently available for debt with similar remaining maturities
    and reflecting the credit risk of the Company including inputs,
    when available, from actively traded debt of the Company or
    other companies with similar types of borrowing arrangements.
    Risk-adjusted discount rates applied to the expected future cash
    flows can

F-92

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

vary significantly based upon the specific terms of each
    individual arrangement, including, but not limited to:
    subordinated rights; contractual interest rates in relation to
    current market rates; the structuring of the arrangement; and
    the nature and observability of the applicable valuation inputs.
    Use of different risk-adjusted discount rates could result in
    different estimated fair values.

The carrying value of long-term debt presented in the table
    above differs from the amounts presented in the consolidated
    balance sheets as it does not include capital leases which are
    not required to be disclosed at estimated fair value.

Payables for Collateral Under Securities Loaned and Other
    Transactions    The estimated fair value for
    payables for collateral under securities loaned and other
    transactions approximates carrying value. The related agreements
    to loan securities are short-term in nature such that the
    Company believes there is limited risk of a material change in
    market interest rates. Additionally, because borrowers are
    cross-collateralized by the borrowed securities, the Company
    believes no additional consideration for changes in its own
    credit are necessary.

Other Liabilities    Other liabilities in the
    consolidated balance sheets are principally comprised of
    freestanding derivatives with negative estimated fair values;
    securities trading liabilities; tax and litigation contingency
    liabilities; obligations for employee-related benefits; interest
    due on the Company s debt obligations and on cash
    collateral held in relation to securities lending; dividends
    payable; amounts due for securities purchased but not yet
    settled; amounts due under assumed reinsurance contracts; and
    general operating accruals and payables.

The estimated fair value of derivatives   with
    positive and negative estimated fair values   and
    embedded derivatives within asset and liability host contracts
    are described in the sections labeled  Derivatives 
    and  Embedded Derivatives within Asset and Liability Host
    Contracts  which follow.

The remaining other amounts included in the table above reflect
    those other liabilities that satisfy the definition of financial
    instruments subject to disclosure. These items consist primarily
    of securities trading liabilities; interest and dividends
    payable; amounts due for securities purchased but not yet
    settled; and amounts payable under certain assumed reinsurance
    contracts recognized using the deposit method of accounting. The
    Company evaluates the specific terms, facts and circumstances of
    each instrument to determine the appropriate estimated fair
    values, which were not materially different from the recognized
    carrying values.

Separate Account Liabilities    Separate account
    liabilities included in the table above represent those balances
    due to policyholders under contracts that are classified as
    investment contracts. The difference between the separate
    account liabilities reflected above and the amounts presented in
    the consolidated balance sheets represents those contracts
    classified as insurance contracts which do not satisfy the
    criteria of financial instruments for which fair value is to be
    disclosed.

Separate account liabilities classified as investment contracts
    primarily represent variable annuities with no significant
    mortality risk to the Company such that the death benefit is
    equal to the account balance; funding agreements related to
    group life contracts; and certain contracts that provide for
    benefit funding.

Separate account liabilities, whether related to investment or
    insurance contracts, are recognized in the consolidated balance
    sheets at an equivalent summary total of the separate account
    assets. Separate account assets, which equal net deposits, net
    investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and
    losses, are fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    the contractholders  liability which is reflected in
    separate account liabilities. Since separate account liabilities
    are fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets
    which are recognized at estimated fair value as described above,
    the Company believes the value of those assets approximates the
    estimated fair value of the related separate account liabilities.

Derivatives    The estimated fair value of
    derivatives is determined through the use of quoted market
    prices for exchange-traded derivatives and interest rate
    forwards to sell certain to be announced securities, or through
    the use of pricing models for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives. The determination of estimated fair value, when
    quoted

F-93

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

market values are not available, is based on market standard
    valuation methodologies and inputs that are assumed to be
    consistent with what other market participants would use when
    pricing the instruments. Derivative valuations can be affected
    by changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
    financial indices, credit spreads, default risk (including the
    counterparties to the contract), volatility, liquidity and
    changes in estimates and assumptions used in the pricing models.

The significant inputs to the pricing models for most
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives are inputs that are observable in the market or can
    be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data. Significant inputs that are observable generally include:
    interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rate
    curves, credit curves and volatility. However, certain
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives may rely on inputs that are significant to the
    estimated fair value that are not observable in the market or
    cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable
    market data. Significant inputs that are unobservable generally
    include: independent broker quotes, credit correlation
    assumptions, references to emerging market currencies and inputs
    that are outside the observable portion of the interest rate
    curve, credit curve, volatility or other relevant market
    measure. These unobservable inputs may involve significant
    management judgment or estimation. Even though unobservable,
    these inputs are based on assumptions deemed appropriate given
    the circumstances and are assumed to be consistent with what
    other market participants would use when pricing such
    instruments.

The credit risk of both the counterparty and the Company are
    considered in determining the estimated fair value for all
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives, and any potential credit adjustment is based on the
    net exposure by counterparty after taking into account the
    effects of netting agreements and collateral arrangements. The
    Company values its derivative positions using the standard swap
    curve which includes a spread over the risk free rate. This
    credit spread is appropriate for those parties that execute
    trades at pricing levels consistent with the standard swap
    curve. As the Company and its significant derivative
    counterparties consistently execute trades at such pricing
    levels, additional credit risk adjustments are not currently
    required in the valuation process. The Company s ability to
    consistently execute at such pricing levels is in part due to
    the netting agreements and collateral arrangements that are in
    place with all of its significant derivative counterparties. The
    evaluation of the requirement to make additional credit risk
    adjustments is performed by the Company each reporting period.

Most inputs for
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives are mid market inputs but, in certain cases, bid
    level inputs are used when they are deemed more representative
    of exit value. Market liquidity, as well as the use of different
    methodologies, assumptions and inputs, may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair values of the Company s
    derivatives and could materially affect net income.

Embedded Derivatives within Asset and Liability Host
    Contracts    Embedded derivatives principally
    include certain direct, assumed and ceded variable annuity
    guarantees and certain funding agreements with equity or bond
    indexed crediting rates. Embedded derivatives are recorded in
    the financial statements at estimated fair value with changes in
    estimated fair value reported in net income.

The Company issues certain variable annuity products with
    guaranteed minimum benefit guarantees. GMWB, GMAB and certain
    GMIB are embedded derivatives, which are measured at estimated
    fair value separately from the host variable annuity contract,
    with changes in estimated fair value reported in net investment
    gains (losses). These embedded derivatives are classified within
    policyholder account balances.

The fair value for these guarantees are estimated using the
    present value of future benefits minus the present value of
    future fees using actuarial and capital market assumptions
    related to the projected cash flows over the expected lives of
    the contracts. A risk neutral valuation methodology is used
    under which the cash flows from the

F-94

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

guarantees are projected under multiple capital market scenarios
    using observable risk free rates. The valuation of these
    guarantees includes an adjustment for the Company s own
    credit and risk margins for non-capital market inputs. The
    Company s own credit adjustment is determined taking into
    consideration publicly available information relating to the
    Company s debt, as well as its claims paying ability. Risk
    margins are established to capture the non-capital market risks
    of the instrument which represent the additional compensation a
    market participant would require to assume the risks related to
    the uncertainties of such actuarial assumptions as
    annuitization, premium persistency, partial withdrawal and
    surrenders. The establishment of risk margins requires the use
    of significant management judgment.

These guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or
    declining equity markets. Market conditions including, but not
    limited to, changes in interest rates, equity indices, market
    volatility and foreign currency exchange rates; changes in the
    Company s own credit standing; and variations in actuarial
    assumptions regarding policyholder behavior and risk margins
    related to non-capital market inputs may result in significant
    fluctuations in the estimated fair value of the guarantees that
    could materially affect net income.

The Company ceded the risk associated with certain of the GMIB
    and GMAB described in the preceding paragraph. These reinsurance
    contracts contain embedded derivatives which are included in
    premiums and other receivables with changes in estimated fair
    value reported in net investment gains (losses) or policyholder
    benefit and claims depending on the statement of operations
    classification of the direct risk. The value of the embedded
    derivatives on the ceded risk is determined using a methodology
    consistent with that described previously for the guarantees
    directly written by the Company.

The estimated fair value of the embedded derivatives within
    funds withheld at interest related to certain ceded reinsurance
    is determined based on the change in estimated fair value of the
    underlying assets held by the Company in a reference portfolio
    backing the funds withheld liability. The estimated fair value
    of the underlying assets is determined as described above in
     Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities and Trading
    Securities  and  Short-term Investments.  The
    estimated fair value of these embedded derivatives is included,
    along with their funds withheld hosts, in other liabilities with
    changes in estimated fair value recorded in net investment gains
    (losses). Changes in the credit spreads on the underlying
    assets, interest rates and market volatility may result in
    significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these
    embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income.

The estimated fair value of the embedded equity and bond indexed
    derivatives contained in certain funding agreements is
    determined using market standard swap valuation models and
    observable market inputs, including an adjustment for the
    Company s own credit that takes into consideration publicly
    available information relating to the Company s debt, as
    well as its claims paying ability. The estimated fair value of
    these embedded derivatives are included, along with their
    funding agreements host, within policyholder account balances
    with changes in estimated fair value recorded in net investment
    gains (losses). Changes in equity and bond indices, interest
    rates and the Company s credit standing may result in
    significant fluctuations in the estimated fair value of these
    embedded derivatives that could materially affect net income.

Assets and Liabilities of Subsidiaries
     Held-For-Sale    
    The carrying value of the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries
     held-for-sale 
    reflects those assets and liabilities which were previously
    determined to be financial instruments and which were reflected
    in other financial statement captions in the table above in
    previous periods but have been reclassified to this caption to
    reflect the discontinued nature of the operations. The estimated
    fair value of the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries
     held-for-sale 
    have been determined on a basis consistent with the asset type
    as described herein.

Mortgage Loan Commitments and Commitments to Fund Bank
    Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private Corporate Bond
    Investments    The estimated fair values for
    mortgage loan commitments and commitments to fund bank credit
    facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments
    reflected in the above table represent the difference between
    the discounted expected future cash flows using interest rates
    that incorporate current credit risk for similar instruments on
    the reporting date and the principal amounts of the original
    commitments.

F-95

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Assets
    and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value  

Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

The assets and liabilities measured at estimated fair value on a
    recurring basis, including those items for which the Company has
    elected the fair value option, are determined as described in
    the preceding section. These estimated fair values and their
    corresponding fair value hierarchy are summarized as follows:

F-96

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Short-term investments as presented in the tables above differ
    from the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets
    because certain short-term investments are not measured at
    estimated fair value (e.g. time deposits, money market funds,
    etc.). 

(2)  

Mortgage loans as presented in the tables above differ from the
    amount presented in the consolidated balance sheets as these
    tables only include residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    measured at estimated fair value on a recurring basis. 

(3)  

Derivative assets are presented within other invested assets and
    derivative liabilities are presented within other liabilities.
    The amounts are presented gross in the tables above to reflect
    the presentation in the consolidated balance sheets, but are
    presented net for purposes of the rollforward in the following
    tables. At December 31,  

F-97

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

2009 and 2008, certain non-derivative hedging instruments of $0
    and $323 million, respectively, which are carried at
    amortized cost, are included with the liabilities total in
    Note 4 but are excluded from derivative liabilities here as
    they are not derivative instruments. 

(4)  

Net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts are
    presented within premiums and other receivables. Net embedded
    derivatives within liability host contracts are presented
    primarily within policyholder account balances. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, equity securities also included
    embedded derivatives of ($37) million and
    ($173) million, respectively. 

(5)  

MSRs are presented within other invested assets. 

(6)  

Separate account assets are measured at estimated fair value.
    Investment performance related to separate account assets is
    fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate
    account liabilities. Separate account liabilities are set equal
    to the estimated fair value of separate account assets. 

(7)  

Trading liabilities are presented within other liabilities. 

The Company has categorized its assets and liabilities into the
    three-level fair value hierarchy based upon the priority of the
    inputs to the respective valuation technique. The following
    summarizes the types of assets and liabilities included within
    the three-level fair value hierarchy presented in the preceding
    table.

Level 1  

This category includes certain U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed fixed maturity securities, certain foreign
    government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common
    stock; certain trading securities; and certain short-term money
    market securities. As it relates to derivatives, this level
    includes exchange-traded equity and interest rate futures, as
    well as interest rate forwards to sell certain to be announced
    securities. Separate account assets classified within this level
    are similar in nature to those classified in this level for the
    general account.

Level 2  

This category includes fixed maturity and equity securities
    priced principally by independent pricing services using
    observable inputs. Fixed maturity securities classified as
    Level 2 include most U.S. Treasury, agency and
    government guaranteed securities, as well as the majority of
    U.S. and foreign corporate securities, RMBS, CMBS, state
    and political subdivision securities, foreign government
    securities and ABS. Equity securities classified as Level 2
    securities consist principally of common stock and
    non-redeemable preferred stock where market quotes are available
    but are not considered actively traded. Short-term investments
    and trading securities included within Level 2 are of a
    similar nature to these fixed maturity and equity securities.
    Mortgage loans included in Level 2 include residential
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    for which there is readily available observable pricing for
    similar loans or securities backed by similar loans and the
    unobservable adjustments to such prices are insignificant. As it
    relates to derivatives, this level includes all types of
    derivative instruments utilized by the Company with the
    exception of exchange-traded futures and interest rate forwards
    to sell certain to be announced securities included within
    Level 1 and those derivative instruments with unobservable
    inputs as described in Level 3. Separate account assets
    classified within this level are generally similar to those
    classified within this level for the general account, with the
    exception of certain mutual funds without readily determinable
    fair values given prices are not published publicly. Hedge funds
    and mutual funds owned by separate accounts are also included
    within this level. Embedded derivatives classified within this
    level include embedded equity derivatives contained in certain
    funding agreements.

Level 3  

This category includes fixed maturity securities priced
    principally through independent broker quotations or market
    standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not
    market observable or cannot be derived principally from or
    corroborated by observable market data. This level primarily
    consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very
    limited trading activity or where

F-98

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation methodologies including: U.S. and foreign
    corporate securities   including below investment
    grade private placements; RMBS and ABS   including all
    of those supported by
     sub-prime 
    mortgage loans. Equity securities classified as Level 3
    securities consist principally of non-redeemable preferred stock
    and common stock of companies that are privately held or of
    companies for which there has been very limited trading activity
    or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the
    valuation. Short-term investments and trading securities
    included within Level 3 are of a similar nature to these
    fixed maturity and equity securities. Mortgage loans included in
    Level 3 include residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    for which pricing for similar loans or securities backed by
    similar loans is not observable and the estimated fair value is
    determined using unobservable independent broker quotations. As
    it relates to derivatives this category includes: swap
    spreadlocks with maturities which extend beyond observable
    periods; interest rate forwards including interest rate lock
    commitments with certain unobservable inputs, including
    pull-through rates; equity variance swaps with unobservable
    volatility inputs or that are priced via independent broker
    quotations; foreign currency swaps which are cancelable and
    priced through independent broker quotations; interest rate
    swaps with maturities which extend beyond the observable portion
    of the yield curve; credit default swaps based upon baskets of
    credits having unobservable credit correlations, as well as
    credit default swaps with maturities which extend beyond the
    observable portion of the credit curves and credit default swaps
    priced through independent broker quotations; foreign currency
    forwards priced via independent broker quotations or with
    liquidity adjustments; interest rate caps and floors referencing
    unobservable yield curves
     and/or  which
    include liquidity and volatility adjustments; implied volatility
    swaps with unobservable volatility inputs; currency options
    based upon baskets of currencies having unobservable currency
    correlations; credit forwards having unobservable repurchase
    rates; and equity options with unobservable volatility inputs.
    Separate account assets classified within this level are
    generally similar to those classified within this level for the
    general account; however, they also include mortgage loans, and
    other limited partnership interests. Embedded derivatives
    classified within this level primarily include embedded
    derivatives associated with certain variable annuity guarantees.
    This category also includes MSRs which are carried at estimated
    fair value and have multiple significant unobservable inputs
    including discount rates, estimates of loan prepayments and
    servicing costs.

F-99

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

A rollforward of all assets and liabilities measured at
    estimated fair value on a recurring basis using significant
    unobservable (Level 3) inputs for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:

F-100

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Amounts presented do not reflect any associated hedging
    activities. Actual earnings associated with Level 3,
    inclusive of hedging activities, could differ materially. 

(2)  

Impact of adoption of fair value measurement guidance represents
    the amount recognized in earnings as a change in estimate
    associated with Level 3 financial instruments held at
    January 1, 2008. The net impact of adoption on Level 3
    assets and liabilities presented in the table above was a
    $23 million increase to net assets. Such amount was also
    impacted by an increase to DAC of $17 million. The impact
    of this adoption on RGA   not reflected in the table
    above as a result of the reflection of RGA in discontinued
    operations   was a net increase of $2 million
    (i.e., a decrease in Level 3 net embedded derivative
    liabilities of $17 million offset by a DAC decrease of
    $15 million) for a total impact of $42 million on
    Level 3 assets and liabilities. This impact of
    $42 million along with a $12 million reduction in the
    estimated fair value of Level 2 freestanding derivatives,
    resulted in a total net impact of adoption of $30 million. 

(3)  

Amortization of premium/discount is included within net
    investment income which is reported within the earnings caption
    of total gains (losses). Impairments charged to earnings are
    included within net investment gains (losses) which are reported
    within the earnings caption of total gains (losses). Lapses
    associated with embedded derivatives are included with the
    earnings caption of total gains (losses). 

(4)  

Interest and dividend accruals, as well as cash interest coupons
    and dividends received, are excluded from the rollforward. 

(5)  

The amount reported within purchases, sales, issuances and
    settlements is the purchase/issuance price (for purchases and
    issuances) and the sales/settlement proceeds (for sales and
    settlements) based upon the actual date purchased/issued or
    sold/settled. Items purchased/issued and sold/settled in the
    same period are excluded  

F-101

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

from the rollforward. For embedded derivatives, attributed fees
    are included within this caption along with settlements, if any. 

(6)  

Total gains and losses (in earnings and other comprehensive
    income (loss)) are calculated assuming transfers in and/or out
    of Level 3 occurred at the beginning of the period. Items
    transferred in and out in the same period are excluded from the
    rollforward. 

(7)  

Freestanding derivative assets and liabilities are presented net
    for purposes of the rollforward. 

(8)  

The additions and reductions (due to loan payments) affecting
    MSRs were $628 million and ($113) million,
    respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009 and
    $350 million and ($10) million, respectively, for the
    year ended December 31, 2008. 

(9)  

The changes in estimated fair value due to changes in valuation
    model inputs or assumptions, and other changes in estimated fair
    value affecting MSRs were $172 million and $0,
    respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009, and
    ($149) million and $0, respectively, for the year ended
    December 31, 2008. 

(10)  

Investment performance related to separate account assets is
    fully offset by corresponding amounts credited to
    contractholders whose liability is reflected within separate
    account liabilities. 

(11)  

Embedded derivative assets and liabilities are presented net for
    purposes of the rollforward. 

The table below summarizes both realized and unrealized gains
    and losses for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008
    due to changes in estimated fair value recorded in earnings for
    Level 3 assets and liabilities:

F-102

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-103

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The table below summarizes the portion of unrealized gains and
    losses recorded in earnings for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 for Level 3 assets and
    liabilities that were still held at December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

F-104

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Fair
    Value Option   Mortgage Loans
     Held-For-Sale    

The Company has elected fair value accounting for certain
    residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale. 
    The following table presents residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    carried under the fair value option at:

F-105

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Residential mortgage loans
     held-for-sale 
    accounted for under the fair value option are initially measured
    at estimated fair value. Interest income on residential mortgage
    loans
     held-for-sale 
    is recorded based on the stated rate of the loan and is recorded
    in net investment income. Gains and losses from initial
    measurement, subsequent changes in estimated fair value and
    gains or losses on sales are recognized in other revenues, and
    such changes in estimated fair value were due to the following:

For the 

Years Ended December 31, 

2009 

2008 

(In millions) 

Instrument-specific credit risk based on changes in credit
    spreads for non-agency loans and adjustments in individual loan
    quality

$

(2

)

$

Other changes in estimated fair value

600

55

Total gains (losses) recognized in other revenues

$

598

$

55

Non-Recurring
    Fair Value Measurements   

Certain assets are measured at estimated fair value on a
    non-recurring basis and are not included in the tables above.
    The amounts below relate to certain investments measured at
    estimated fair value during the period and still held as of the
    reporting dates.

(1)  

Mortgage Loans    The impaired mortgage loans
    presented above were written down to their estimated fair values
    at the date the impairments were recognized. Estimated fair
    values for impaired mortgage loans are based on observable
    market prices or, if the loans are in foreclosure or are
    otherwise determined to be collateral dependent, on the
    estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, or the
    present value of the expected future cash flows. Impairments to
    estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair value
    measurements that have been categorized as Level 3 due to
    the lack of price transparency inherent in the limited markets
    for such mortgage loans. 

(2)  

Other Limited Partnership Interests    The
    impaired investments presented above were accounted for using
    the cost basis. Impairments on these cost basis investments were
    recognized at estimated fair value determined from information
    provided in the financial statements of the underlying entities
    in the period in which the impairment was incurred. These
    impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair
    value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due
    to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the
    market for such investments. This category includes several
    private equity and debt funds that typically invest primarily in
    a diversified pool of investments across certain investment
    strategies including domestic and international leveraged buyout
    funds; power, energy, timber and infrastructure development  

F-106

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

funds; venture capital funds; below investment grade debt and
    mezzanine debt funds. The estimated fair values of these
    investments have been determined using the NAV of the
    Company s ownership interest in the partners  capital.
    Distributions from these investments will be generated from
    investment gains, from operating income from the underlying
    investments of the funds and from liquidation of the underlying
    assets of the funds. It is estimated that the underlying assets
    of the funds will be liquidated over the next 2 to
    10 years. Unfunded commitments for these investments were
    $354 million as of December 31, 2009. 

(3)  

Real Estate Joint Ventures    The impaired
    investments presented above were accounted for using the cost
    basis. Impairments on these cost basis investments were
    recognized at estimated fair value determined from information
    provided in the financial statements of the underlying entities
    in the period in which the impairment was incurred. These
    impairments to estimated fair value represent non-recurring fair
    value measurements that have been classified as Level 3 due
    to the limited activity and price transparency inherent in the
    market for such investments. This category includes several real
    estate funds that typically invest primarily in commercial real
    estate. The estimated fair values of these investments have been
    determined using the NAV of the Company s ownership
    interest in the partners  capital. Distributions from these
    investments will be generated from investment gains, from
    operating income from the underlying investments of the funds
    and from liquidation of the underlying assets of the funds. It
    is estimated that the underlying assets of the funds will be
    liquidated over the next 2 to 10 years. Unfunded
    commitments for these investments were $86 million as of
    December 31, 2009. 

F-107

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

6.    

Deferred
    Policy Acquisition Costs and Value of Business
    Acquired  

Information regarding DAC and VOBA is as follows:

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and
    dispositions.

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VOBA is $394 million
    in 2010, $352 million in 2011, $311 million in 2012,
    $264 million in 2013 and $222 million in 2014.

F-108

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Amortization of DAC and VOBA is attributed to both investment
    gains and losses and to other expenses for the amount of gross
    margins or profits originating from transactions other than
    investment gains and losses. Unrealized investment gains and
    losses represent the amount of DAC and VOBA that would have been
    amortized if such gains and losses had been recognized.

Information regarding DAC and VOBA by segment and reporting unit
    is as follows:

Goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of
    net assets acquired. Information regarding goodwill is as
    follows:

(1)  

See Note 2 for a description of acquisitions and
    dispositions. 

(2)  

Consisting principally of foreign currency translation
    adjustments. 

F-109

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding goodwill by segment and reporting unit is
    as follows:

As described in more detail in Note 1, the Company
    performed its annual goodwill impairment tests during the third
    quarter of 2009 based upon data at June 30, 2009 that
    indicated that goodwill was not impaired. During the fourth
    quarter of 2009, the Company realigned its reportable segments.
    See Notes 1 and 22. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment
    tests were based on the segment structure in existence prior to
    such realignment. The realignment did not significantly change
    the reporting units for goodwill impairment testing purposes and
    management concluded that no additional tests were required at
    December 31, 2009.

Previously, due to economic conditions, the sustained low level
    of equity markets, declining market capitalizations in the
    insurance industry and lower operating earnings projections,
    particularly in individual annuity and variable  
    universal life reporting units, management performed an interim
    goodwill impairment test at December 31, 2008 and again,
    for certain reporting units most affected by the current
    economic environment at March 31, 2009. Based upon the
    tests performed, management concluded no impairment of goodwill
    had occurred for any of the Company s reporting units at
    March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.

Management continues to evaluate current market conditions that
    may affect the estimated fair value of the Company s
    reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment
    exists. Continued deteriorating or adverse market conditions for
    certain reporting units may have a significant impact on the
    estimated fair value of these reporting units and could result
    in future impairments of goodwill.

F-110

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

8.    

Insurance  

Insurance
    Liabilities   

Insurance liabilities are as follows:

Value
    of Distribution Agreements and Customer Relationships
    Acquired   

Information regarding the VODA and VOCRA, which are reported in
    other assets, is as follows:

The estimated future amortization expense allocated to other
    expenses for the next five years for VODA and VOCRA is
    $40 million in 2010, $44 million in 2011,
    $49 million in 2012, $52 million in 2013 and
    $55 million in 2014. See Note 2 for a description of
    acquisitions and dispositions.

F-111

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Sales
    Inducements   

Information regarding deferred sales inducements, which are
    reported in other assets, is as follows:

Separate
    Accounts   

Separate account assets and liabilities include two categories
    of account types: pass-through separate accounts totaling
    $121.4 billion and $96.6 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, for which the policyholder assumes
    all investment risk, and separate accounts with a minimum return
    or account value for which the Company contractually guarantees
    either a minimum return or account value to the policyholder
    which totaled $27.6 billion and $24.2 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The latter
    category consisted primarily of funding agreements and
    participating close-out contracts. The average interest rate
    credited on these contracts was 3.35% and 4.40% at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Fees charged to the separate accounts by the Company (including
    mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender
    charges) are reflected in the Company s revenues as
    universal life and investment-type product policy fees and
    totaled $2.6 billion, $3.2 billion and
    $2.8 billion for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively.

The Company s proportional interest in separate accounts is
    included in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:

For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, there
    were no investment gains (losses) on transfers of assets from
    the general account to the separate accounts.

Obligations
    Under Funding Agreements   

The Company issues fixed and floating rate funding agreements,
    which are denominated in either U.S. Dollars or foreign
    currencies, to certain SPEs that have issued debt securities for
    which payment of interest and principal is secured by such
    funding agreements. During the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company issued $4.3 billion,
    $5.8 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively, and
    repaid $7.7 billion, $8.3 billion and
    $4.3 billion, respectively, of such funding agreements. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, funding agreements outstanding,
    which are included in policyholder account balances, were
    $19.3 billion and $21.6 billion, respectively. During
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, interest
    credited on the funding agreements, which are included in
    interest credited to policyholder account balances, was
    $0.6 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion,
    respectively.

MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut ( MICC ) is a
    member of the FHLB of Boston and holds $70 million of
    common stock of the FHLB of Boston at both December 31,
    2009 and 2008, which is included in

F-112

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

equity securities. MICC has also entered into funding agreements
    with the FHLB of Boston whereby MICC has issued such funding
    agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB of Boston
    has been granted a blanket lien on certain MICC assets,
    including RMBS, to collateralize MICC s obligations under
    the funding agreements. MICC maintains control over these
    pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of
    any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of
    default by MICC, the FHLB of Boston s recovery on the
    collateral is limited to the amount of MICC s liability to
    the FHLB of Boston. The amount of MICC s liability for
    funding agreements with the FHLB of Boston was $326 million
    and $526 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. In addition, at December 31, 2008, MICC had
    advances of $300 million from the FHLB of Boston with
    original maturities of less than one year and therefore, such
    advances are included in short-term debt. There were no such
    advances at December 31, 2009. These advances and the
    advances on these funding agreements are collateralized by
    mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $419 million and $1,284 million at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, interest credited on the
    funding agreements, which are included in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, was $6 million,
    $15 million and $34 million, respectively.

MLIC is a member of the FHLB of NY and holds $742 million
    and $830 million of common stock of the FHLB of NY at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is included
    in equity securities. MLIC has also entered into funding
    agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby MLIC has issued such
    funding agreements in exchange for cash and for which the FHLB
    of NY has been granted a lien on certain MLIC assets, including
    RMBS to collateralize MLIC s obligations under the funding
    agreements. MLIC maintains control over these pledged assets,
    and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of any portion of
    the collateral as long as there is no event of default and the
    remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to satisfy the
    collateral maintenance level. Upon any event of default by MLIC,
    the FHLB of NY s recovery on the collateral is limited to
    the amount of MLIC s liability to the FHLB of NY. The
    amount of the Company s liability for funding agreements
    with the FHLB of NY was $13.7 billion and
    $15.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, which is included in policyholder account
    balances. The advances on these agreements are collateralized by
    mortgage-backed securities with estimated fair values of
    $15.1 billion and $17.8 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, interest credited on the
    funding agreements, which are included in interest credited to
    policyholder account balances, was $333 million,
    $229 million and $94 million, respectively.

The temporary contingent increase in MLIC s borrowing
    capacity that was in effect on December 31, 2008 expired
    December 31, 2009.

MLIC has issued funding agreements to certain SPEs that have
    issued debt securities for which payment of interest and
    principal is secured by such funding agreements, and such debt
    securities are also guaranteed as to payment of interest and
    principal by the Farmer MAC, a federally chartered
    instrumentality of the United States. The obligations under
    these funding agreements are secured by a pledge of certain
    eligible agricultural real estate mortgage loans and may, under
    certain circumstances, be secured by other qualified collateral.
    The amount of the Company s liability for funding
    agreements issued to such trusts was $2.5 billion at both
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, which is included in
    policyholder account balances. The obligations under these
    funding agreements are collateralized by designated agricultural
    real estate mortgage loans with estimated fair values of
    $2.9 billion at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.
    During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    interest credited on the funding agreements, which are included
    in interest credited to policyholder account balances, was
    $132 million, $132 million and $117 million,
    respectively.

F-113

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Liabilities
    for Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses   

Information regarding the liabilities for unpaid claims and
    claim expenses relating to property and casualty, group accident
    and non-medical health policies and contracts, which are
    reported in future policy benefits and other policyholder funds,
    is as follows:

During 2009, 2008 and 2007, as a result of changes in estimates
    of insured events in the respective prior year, claims and claim
    adjustment expenses associated with prior years decreased by
    $152 million, $353 million and $325 million,
    respectively, due to a reduction in prior year automobile bodily
    injury and homeowners  severity, reduced loss adjustment
    expenses, improved loss ratio for non-medical health claim
    liabilities and improved claim management.

Guarantees   

The Company issues annuity contracts which may include
    contractual guarantees to the contractholder for:
    (i) return of no less than total deposits made to the
    contract less any partial withdrawals ( return of net
    deposits  and (ii) the highest contract value on a
    specified anniversary date minus any withdrawals following the
    contract anniversary, or total deposits made to the contract
    less any partial withdrawals plus a minimum return
    ( anniversary contract value  or  minimum
    return ). The Company also issues annuity contracts that
    apply a lower rate of funds deposited if the contractholder
    elects to surrender the contract for cash and a higher rate if
    the contractholder elects to annuitize ( two tier
    annuities ). These guarantees include benefits that are
    payable in the event of death or at annuitization.

The Company also issues universal and variable life contracts
    where the Company contractually guarantees to the contractholder
    a secondary guarantee or a guaranteed
     paid-up 
    benefit.

F-114

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the types of guarantees relating to
    annuity contracts and universal and variable life contracts is
    as follows:

(1)  

The Company s annuity and life contracts with guarantees
    may offer more than one type of guarantee in each contract.
    Therefore, the amounts listed above may not be mutually
    exclusive. 

(2)  

The net amount at risk is based on the direct amount at risk
    (excluding reinsurance). 

(3)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts in the event of
    death is defined as the current GMDB in excess of the current
    account balance at the balance sheet date. 

(4)  

The net amount at risk for guarantees of amounts at
    annuitization is defined as the present value of the minimum
    guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder
    determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in
    excess of the current account balance. 

(5)  

The net amount at risk for two tier annuities is based on the
    excess of the upper tier, adjusted for a profit margin, less the
    lower tier. 

F-115

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the liabilities for guarantees (excluding
    base policy liabilities) relating to annuity and universal and
    variable life contracts is as follows:

F-116

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Account balances of contracts with insurance guarantees are
    invested in separate account asset classes as follows:

9.    

Reinsurance  

The Company s Insurance Products segment participates in
    reinsurance activities in order to limit losses, minimize
    exposure to significant risks and provide additional capacity
    for future growth.

For its individual life insurance products, the Company has
    historically reinsured the mortality risk primarily on an excess
    of retention basis or a quota share basis. Until 2005, the
    Company reinsured up to 90% of the mortality risk for all new
    individual life insurance policies that it wrote through its
    various subsidiaries. During 2005, the Company changed its
    retention practices for certain individual life insurance
    policies. Under the new retention guidelines, the Company
    reinsures up to 90% of the mortality risk in excess of
    $1 million. Retention limits remain unchanged for other new
    individual life insurance policies. Policies reinsured in years
    prior to 2005 remain reinsured under the original reinsurance
    agreements. On a case by case basis, the Company may retain up
    to $20 million per life and reinsure 100% of amounts in
    excess of the Company s retention limits. The Company
    evaluates its reinsurance programs routinely and may increase or
    decrease its retention at any time. Placement of reinsurance is
    done primarily on an automatic basis and also on a facultative
    basis for risks with specific characteristics. In addition to
    reinsuring mortality risk as described above, the Company
    reinsures other risks, as well as specific coverages. The
    Company routinely reinsures certain classes of risks in order to
    limit its exposure to particular travel, avocation and lifestyle
    hazards.

For other policies within the Insurance Products segment, the
    Company generally retains most of the risk and only cedes
    particular risks on certain client arrangements.

The Company s Retirement Products segment reinsures a
    portion of the living and death benefit guarantees issued in
    connection with its variable annuities. Under these reinsurance
    agreements, the Company pays a reinsurance premium generally
    based on fees associated with the guarantees collected from
    policyholders, and receives reimbursement for benefits paid or
    accrued in excess of account values, subject to certain
    limitations. The Company enters into similar agreements for new
    or in-force business depending on market conditions.

The Company s International and Corporate Benefit Funding
    segments have periodically engaged in reinsurance activities, as
    considered appropriate. The impact of these activities on the
    financial results of these segments has not been significant.

The Company s Auto   Home segment purchases
    reinsurance to manage its exposure to large losses (primarily
    catastrophe losses) and to protect statutory surplus. The
    Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of losses and premiums
    based upon the exposure of the policies subject to reinsurance.
    To manage exposure to large property and casualty losses, the
    Company utilizes property catastrophe, casualty and property per
    risk excess of loss agreements.

F-117

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company also reinsures, through 100% quota share reinsurance
    agreements, certain long-term care and workers 
    compensation business written by MICC. These are run-off
    businesses which have been included within Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

The Company has exposure to catastrophes, which could contribute
    to significant fluctuations in the Company s results of
    operations. The Company uses excess of retention and quota share
    reinsurance arrangements to provide greater diversification of
    risk and minimize exposure to larger risks.

The Company reinsures its business through a diversified group
    of reinsurers and periodically monitors collectibility of
    reinsurance balances. These reinsurance recoverable balances are
    stated net of allowances for uncollectible reinsurance, which as
    of December 31, 2009 and 2008, were immaterial.

The Company analyzes recent trends in arbitration and litigation
    outcomes in disputes, if any, with its reinsurers. The Company
    monitors ratings and evaluates the financial strength of the
    Company s reinsurers by analyzing their financial
    statements. In addition, the reinsurance recoverable balance due
    from each reinsurer is evaluated as part of the overall
    monitoring process. Recoverability of reinsurance recoverable
    balances are evaluated based on these analyses.

The Company has secured certain reinsurance recoverable balances
    with various forms of collateral, including secured trusts,
    funds withheld accounts and irrevocable letters of credit. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company  had $4.4 billion of
    unsecured unaffiliated reinsurance recoverable balances.

At December 31, 2009, the Company had $11.7 billion of
    net unaffiliated ceded reinsurance recoverables. Of this total,
    $9.2 billion, or 79%, were with the Company s five
    largest unaffiliated ceded reinsurers, including
    $3.0 billion of which were unsecured.

The amounts in the consolidated statements of operations include
    the impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the effect of
    reinsurance is as follows:

F-118

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The amounts in the consolidated balance sheets include the
    impact of reinsurance. Information regarding the effect of
    reinsurance is as follows:

On April 7, 2000, (the  Demutualization Date ),
    MLIC converted from a mutual life insurance company to a stock
    life insurance company and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    MetLife, Inc. The conversion was pursuant to an order by the New
    York Superintendent of Insurance (the
     Superintendent ) approving MLIC s plan of
    reorganization, as amended (the  Plan ). On the
    Demutualization Date, MLIC established a closed block for the
    benefit of holders of certain individual life insurance policies
    of MLIC. Assets have been allocated to the closed block in an
    amount that has been determined to produce cash flows which,
    together with anticipated revenues from the policies included in
    the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to
    support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies,
    including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of
    claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the
    continuation of policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999,
    if the experience underlying such dividend scales continues, and
    for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience
    changes. At least annually, the Company compares actual and
    projected experience against the

F-119

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

experience assumed in the then-current dividend scales. Dividend
    scales are adjusted periodically to give effect to changes in
    experience.

The closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed
    block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in
    the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies
    in the closed block. To the extent that, over time, cash flows
    from the assets allocated to the closed block and claims and
    other experience related to the closed block are, in the
    aggregate, more or less favorable than what was assumed when the
    closed block was established, total dividends paid to closed
    block policyholders in the future may be greater than or less
    than the total dividends that would have been paid to these
    policyholders if the policyholder dividend scales in effect for
    1999 had been continued. Any cash flows in excess of amounts
    assumed will be available for distribution over time to closed
    block policyholders and will not be available to stockholders.
    If the closed block has insufficient funds to make guaranteed
    policy benefit payments, such payments will be made from assets
    outside of the closed block. The closed block will continue in
    effect as long as any policy in the closed block remains
    in-force. The expected life of the closed block is over
    100 years.

The Company uses the same accounting principles to account for
    the participating policies included in the closed block as it
    used prior to the Demutualization Date. However, the Company
    establishes a policyholder dividend obligation for earnings that
    will be paid to policyholders as additional dividends as
    described below. The excess of closed block liabilities over
    closed block assets at the effective date of the demutualization
    (adjusted to eliminate the impact of related amounts in
    accumulated other comprehensive income) represents the estimated
    maximum future earnings from the closed block expected to result
    from operations attributed to the closed block after income
    taxes. Earnings of the closed block are recognized in income
    over the period the policies and contracts in the closed block
    remain in-force. Management believes that over time the actual
    cumulative earnings of the closed block will approximately equal
    the expected cumulative earnings due to the effect of dividend
    changes. If, over the period the closed block remains in
    existence, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block
    are greater than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed
    block, the Company will pay the excess of the actual cumulative
    earnings of the closed block over the expected cumulative
    earnings to closed block policyholders as additional
    policyholder dividends unless offset by future unfavorable
    experience of the closed block and, accordingly, will recognize
    only the expected cumulative earnings in income with the excess
    recorded as a policyholder dividend obligation. If over such
    period, the actual cumulative earnings of the closed block are
    less than the expected cumulative earnings of the closed block,
    the Company will recognize only the actual earnings in income.
    However, the Company may change policyholder dividend scales in
    the future, which would be intended to increase future actual
    earnings until the actual cumulative earnings equal the expected
    cumulative earnings.

Recent experience within the closed block, in particular
    mortality and investment yields, as well as realized and
    unrealized losses, have resulted in a policyholder dividend
    obligation of zero at both December 31, 2009 and 2008. The
    policyholder dividend obligation of zero and the Company s
    decision to revise the expected policyholder dividend scales,
    which are based upon statutory results, have resulted in a
    reduction to both actual and expected cumulative earnings of the
    closed block. Amortization of the closed block DAC, which
    resides outside of the closed block, will be based upon actual
    cumulative earnings rather than expected cumulative earnings of
    the closed block until such time as the actual cumulative
    earnings of the closed block exceed the expected cumulative
    earnings, at which time the policyholder dividend obligation
    will be reestablished. Actual cumulative earnings less than
    expected cumulative earnings will result in future adjustments
    to DAC and net income of the Company and increase sensitivity of
    the Company s net income to movements in closed block
    results.

F-120

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block liabilities and assets
    designated to the closed block is as follows:

Information regarding the closed block policyholder dividend
    obligation is as follows:

F-121

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information regarding the closed block revenues and expenses is
    as follows:

The change in the maximum future earnings of the closed block is
    as follows:

(1)  

The closed block adjustment represents an intra-company
    reallocation of assets which affected the closed block. The
    adjustment had no impact on the Company s consolidated
    financial statements. 

MLIC charges the closed block with federal income taxes, state
    and local premium taxes and other additive state or local taxes,
    as well as investment management expenses relating to the closed
    block as provided in the Plan. MLIC also charges the closed
    block for expenses of maintaining the policies included in the
    closed block.

F-122

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

11.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term and short-term debt outstanding is as follows:

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt at December 31,
    2009 for the next five years are $431 million in 2010,
    $1,358 million in 2011, $1,506 million in 2012,
    $718 million in 2013, $416 million in 2014 and
    $8,789 million thereafter.

Repurchase agreements and capital lease obligations are
    collateralized and rank highest in priority, followed by
    unsecured senior debt which consists of senior notes, fixed rate
    notes and other notes with varying interest rates, followed by
    subordinated debt which consists of junior subordinated debt
    securities. Payments of interest and principal on the
    Company s surplus notes, which are subordinate to all other
    obligations at the operating company level and senior to
    obligations at the Holding Company, may be made only with the
    prior approval of the insurance department of the state of
    domicile. Collateral financing arrangements are supported by
    either surplus notes of subsidiaries or financing arrangements
    with the Holding Company and accordingly have priority
    consistent with other such obligations.

Certain of the Company s debt instruments, credit
    facilities and committed facilities contain various
    administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. The
    Company believes it was in compliance with all covenants at both
    December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Senior
    Notes   

In May 2009, the Holding Company issued $1,250 million of
    senior notes due June 1, 2016. The notes bear interest at a
    fixed rate of 6.75%, payable semiannually. In connection with
    the offering, the Holding Company incurred $6 million of
    issuance costs which have been capitalized and included in other
    assets. These costs are being amortized over the term of the
    notes.

In March 2009, the Holding Company issued $397 million of
    floating rate senior notes due June 29, 2012 under the FDIC
    Program. The notes bear interest at a rate equal to three-month
    LIBOR, reset quarterly, plus 0.32%. The notes are not redeemable
    prior to their maturity. In connection with the offering, the
    Holding Company incurred $15 million of issuance costs
    which have been capitalized and included in other assets. These
    costs are being amortized over the term of the notes.

In February 2009, the Holding Company remarketed its existing
    $1,035 million 4.91% Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities as 7.717% senior debt securities, Series B,
    due 2019. In August 2008, the Holding Company remarketed its
    existing $1,035 million 4.82% Series A junior
    subordinated debt securities as 6.817% senior debt
    securities, Series A, due 2018. Interest on both series of
    debt securities is payable

F-123

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

semiannually. The Series A and Series B junior
    subordinated debt securities were originally issued in 2005 in
    connection with the common equity units. See Notes 13 and
    14.

Repurchase
    Agreements with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New
    York   

MetLife Bank is a member of the FHLB of NY and held
    $124 million and $89 million of common stock of the
    FHLB of NY at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    which is included in equity securities. MetLife Bank has also
    entered into repurchase agreements with the FHLB of NY whereby
    MetLife Bank has issued repurchase agreements in exchange for
    cash and for which the FHLB of NY has been granted a blanket
    lien on certain of MetLife Bank s residential mortgages,
    mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities to
    collateralize MetLife Bank s obligations under the
    repurchase agreements. MetLife Bank maintains control over these
    pledged assets, and may use, commingle, encumber or dispose of
    any portion of the collateral as long as there is no event of
    default and the remaining qualified collateral is sufficient to
    satisfy the collateral maintenance level. The repurchase
    agreements and the related security agreement represented by
    this blanket lien provide that upon any event of default by
    MetLife Bank, the FHLB of NY s recovery is limited to the
    amount of MetLife Bank s liability under the outstanding
    repurchase agreements. The amount of MetLife Bank s
    liability for repurchase agreements entered into with the FHLB
    of NY was $2.4 billion and $1.8 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which is included
    in long-term debt and short-term debt depending upon the
    original tenor of the advance. During the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, MetLife Bank received
    advances related to long-term borrowings totaling
    $1,280 million, $220 million and $390 million,
    respectively, from the FHLB of NY. MetLife Bank made repayments
    to the FHLB of NY of $497 million, $371 million and
    $175 million related to long-term borrowings for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
    advances on the repurchase agreements related to both long-term
    and short-term debt were collateralized by residential
    mortgages, mortgage loans
     held-for-sale, 
    commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities with
    estimated fair values of $5.5 billion and $3.1 billion
    at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Collateralized
    Borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York   

MetLife Bank is a depository institution that is approved to use
    the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Discount Window borrowing
    privileges and participate in the Federal Reserve Bank of New
    York Term Auction Facility. In order to utilize these
    facilities, MetLife Bank has pledged qualifying loans and
    investment securities to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as
    collateral. At December 31, 2008, MetLife Bank s
    liability for advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
    under these facilities was $950 million, which is included
    in short-term debt. MetLife Bank had no liability for advances
    from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under these facilities
    at December 31, 2009. The estimated fair value of loan and
    investment security collateral pledged by MetLife Bank to the
    Federal Reserve Bank of New York at December 31, 2009 and
    2008 was $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively.
    During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
    weighted average interest rate on these advances was 0.26% and
    0.79%, respectively. During the years ended December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, the average daily balance of these
    advances was $1,513 million and $145 million and these
    advances were outstanding for an average of 24 days and
    41 days. The Company did not participate in these programs
    during 2007.

F-124

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Short-term
    Debt   

Short-term debt with maturities less than one year is as follows:

During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt was 0.42%,
    2.4% and 5.0%, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense related to the Company s indebtedness
    included in other expenses was $713 million,
    $554 million and $600 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and does
    not include interest expense on collateral financing
    arrangements, junior subordinated debt securities or common
    equity units. See Notes 12 and 13.

Credit
    and Committed Facilities   

The Company maintains unsecured credit facilities and committed
    facilities, which aggregated $3.2 billion and
    $12.8 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009.
    When drawn upon, these facilities bear interest at varying rates
    in accordance with the respective agreements.

Credit Facilities.   The unsecured credit
    facilities are used for general corporate purposes. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding
    $548 million in letters of credit and no aggregate
    drawdowns against these facilities. Remaining unused commitments
    were $2.6 billion at December 31, 2009.

Total fees expensed associated with these credit facilities were
    $43 million and $17 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Information on
    these credit facilities at December 31, 2009 is as follows:

F-125

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(1)  

Proceeds are available to be used for general corporate
    purposes, to support the borrowers  commercial paper
    programs and for the issuance of letters of credit. All
    borrowings under the credit agreement must be repaid by June
    2012, except that letters of credit outstanding upon termination
    may remain outstanding until June 2013. 

Committed Facilities.   The committed facilities
    are used for collateral for certain of the Company s
    affiliated reinsurance liabilities. At December 31, 2009,
    the Company had outstanding $4.7 billion in letters of
    credit and $2.8 billion in aggregate drawdowns against
    these facilities. Remaining unused commitments were
    $5.4 billion at December 31, 2009.

Total fees expensed associated with these committed facilities
    were $55 million and $35 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Information on
    these committed facilities at December 31, 2009 is as
    follows:

(1)  

Letters of credit and replacements or renewals thereof issued
    under this facility of $280 million, $10 million and
    $200 million are set to expire no later than December 2015,
    March 2016 and June 2016, respectively. 

(2)  

The Holding Company is a guarantor under this agreement. 

12.    

Collateral
    Financing Arrangements  

Associated
    with the Closed Block   

In December 2007, MLIC reinsured a portion of its closed block
    liabilities to MRC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In
    connection with this transaction, MRC issued, to investors
    placed by an unaffiliated financial institution,
    $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of
     35-year 
    surplus notes to provide statutory reserve support for the
    assumed closed block liabilities. Interest on the surplus notes
    accrues at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55%, payable quarterly. The ability of MRC to make
    interest and principal payments on the surplus notes is
    contingent upon South Carolina regulatory approval. At both
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the amount of the surplus notes
    outstanding was $2.5 billion.

Simultaneous with the issuance of the surplus notes, the Holding
    Company entered into an agreement with the unaffiliated
    financial institution, under which the Holding Company is
    entitled to the interest paid by MRC on the surplus notes of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.55% in exchange for the payment of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.12%, payable quarterly on such amount as adjusted,
    as described below. The Holding Company may also be required to
    pledge collateral or make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution related to any decline in the estimated fair value

F-126

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

of the surplus notes. Any such payments would be accounted for
    as a receivable and included in other assets on the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets and would not reduce
    the principal amount outstanding of the surplus notes. Such
    payments would, however, reduce the amount of interest payments
    due from the Holding Company under the agreement. Any payment
    received from the unaffiliated financial institution would
    reduce the receivable by an amount equal to such payment and
    would also increase the amount of interest payments due from the
    Holding Company under the agreement. In addition, the
    unaffiliated financial institution may be required to pledge
    collateral to the Holding Company related to any increase in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. During 2008, the
    Holding Company paid an aggregate of $800 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution relating to declines in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. The Holding Company
    did not receive any payments from the unaffiliated financial
    institution during 2008. During 2009, on a net basis, the
    Holding Company received $375 million from the unaffiliated
    financial institution related to changes in the estimated fair
    value of the surplus notes. No payments were made or received by
    the Holding Company during 2007. Since the closing of the
    collateral financing arrangement in December 2007, on a net
    basis, the Holding Company has paid $425 million to the
    unaffiliated financial institution related to changes in the
    estimated fair value of the surplus notes. In addition, at
    December 31, 2008, the Holding Company had pledged
    collateral with an estimated fair value of $230 million to
    the unaffiliated financial institution. At December 31,
    2009, the Holding Company had no collateral pledged to the
    unaffiliated financial institution in connection with this
    agreement. The Holding Company may also be required to make a
    payment to the unaffiliated financial institution in connection
    with any early termination of this agreement.

A majority of the proceeds from the offering of the surplus
    notes was placed in a trust, which is consolidated by the
    Company, to support MRC s statutory obligations associated
    with the assumed closed block liabilities. During 2007, MRC
    deposited $2.0 billion into the trust, from the proceeds of
    the surplus notes issued in 2007. During 2008, MRC deposited an
    additional $314 million into the trust. No amounts were
    deposited into the trust during 2009. At December 31, 2009
    and 2008, the estimated fair value of assets held in trust by
    the Company was $2.4 billion and $2.1 billion,
    respectively. The assets are principally invested in fixed
    maturity securities and are presented as such within the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the related
    income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest
    on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a
    component of other expenses.

Total interest expense related to the collateral financing
    arrangement was $51 million, $117 million and
    $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
    and 2007, respectively.

Associated
    with Secondary Guarantees   

In May 2007, the Holding Company and MRSC, a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of the Company, entered into a
     30-year 
    collateral financing arrangement with an unaffiliated financial
    institution that provides up to $3.5 billion of statutory
    reserve support for MRSC associated with reinsurance obligations
    under intercompany reinsurance agreements. Such statutory
    reserves are associated with universal life secondary guarantees
    and are required under U.S. Valuation of Life Policies
    Model Regulation (commonly referred to as
     Regulation A-XXX). 
    At December 31, 2009 and 2008, $2.8 billion and
    $2.7 billion, respectively, had been drawn upon under the
    collateral financing arrangement. The collateral financing
    arrangement may be extended by agreement of the Holding Company
    and the unaffiliated financial institution on each anniversary
    of the closing.

Proceeds from the collateral financing arrangement were placed
    in trusts to support MRSC s statutory obligations
    associated with the reinsurance of secondary guarantees. The
    trusts are VIEs which are consolidated by the Company. The
    unaffiliated financial institution is entitled to the return on
    the investment portfolio held by the trusts. At
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company held assets in
    trust with an estimated fair value of $3.2 billion and
    $2.4 billion, respectively, associated with the collateral
    financing arrangement. The assets are principally invested in
    fixed maturity securities and are presented as such within the
    Company s consolidated balance sheets, with the related
    income included within net investment income in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations. Interest
    on the collateral financing arrangement is included as a
    component of other expenses.

F-127

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In connection with the collateral financing arrangement, the
    Holding Company entered into an agreement with the same
    unaffiliated financial institution under which the Holding
    Company is entitled to the return on the investment portfolio
    held by the trusts established in connection with this
    collateral financing arrangement in exchange for the payment of
    a stated rate of return to the unaffiliated financial
    institution of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.70%, payable quarterly. The Holding Company may
    also be required to make payments to the unaffiliated financial
    institution, for deposit into the trusts, related to any decline
    in the estimated fair value of the assets held by the trusts, as
    well as amounts outstanding upon maturity or early termination
    of the collateral financing arrangement. During 2009 and 2008,
    the Holding Company contributed $360 million and
    $320 million, respectively, as a result of declines in the
    estimated fair value of the assets in the trusts. Cumulatively
    since May 2007, the Holding Company has contributed a total of
    $680 million as a result of declines in the estimated fair
    value of the assets in the trusts, all of which was deposited
    into the trusts.

In addition, the Holding Company may be required to pledge
    collateral to the unaffiliated financial institution under this
    agreement. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Holding
    Company had pledged $80 million and $86 million,
    respectively, under the agreement.

Transaction costs associated with the collateral financing
    arrangement of $5 million have been capitalized, are
    included in other assets, and are being amortized over the
    period from May 2007, the date the Holding Company entered into
    the collateral financing arrangement, to its expiration. Total
    interest expense related to the collateral financing arrangement
    was $44 million, $107 million and $84 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

13.    

Junior
    Subordinated Debt Securities  

Junior
    Subordinated Debt Securities Underlying Common Equity
    Units   

In June 2005, the Holding Company issued $1,067 million
    4.82% Series A and $1,067 million 4.91% Series B
    junior subordinated debt securities due no later than
    February 15, 2039 and February 15, 2040, respectively,
    for a total of $2,134 million, in exchange for
    $64 million in trust common securities of MetLife Capital
    Trust II ( Series A Trust ) and MetLife
    Capital Trust III ( Series B Trust ) and
    together with the Series A Trust, (the  Capital
    Trusts ), both subsidiary trusts of MetLife, Inc., and
    $2,070 million in aggregate cash proceeds from the sale by
    the subsidiary trusts of trust preferred securities,
    constituting part of the common equity units. The subsidiary
    trusts each issued $1,035 million of trust preferred
    securities and $32 million of trust common securities.

In August 2008, the Series A Trust was dissolved and
    $32 million of the Series A junior subordinated debt
    securities were returned to the Holding Company concurrently
    with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
    securities of the Series A Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon
    dissolution of the Series A Trust, the remaining
    $1,035 million of Series A junior subordinated debt
    securities were distributed to the holders of the trust
    preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were
    cancelled. In connection with the remarketing transaction on
    August 15, 2008, the remaining $1,035 million of
    MetLife, Inc. Series A junior subordinated debt securities
    were modified, as permitted by their terms, to be
    6.817% senior debt securities, Series A, due
    August 15, 2018. The Company did not receive any proceeds
    from the remarketing. See also Notes 11, 14 and 18.

In February 2009, the Series B Trust was dissolved and
    $32 million of the Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities were returned to the Holding Company concurrently
    with the cancellation of the $32 million of trust common
    securities of the Series B Trust held by MetLife, Inc. Upon
    dissolution of the Series B Trust, the remaining
    $1,035 million of Series B junior subordinated debt
    securities were distributed to the holders of the trust
    preferred securities and such trust preferred securities were
    cancelled. In connection with the remarketing transaction on
    February 17, 2009, the remaining $1,035 million of
    MetLife, Inc. Series B junior subordinated debt securities
    were modified, as permitted by their terms, to be
    7.717% senior debt securities, Series B, due
    February 15, 2019. The Company did not receive any proceeds
    from the remarketing. See also Notes 11, 14 and 18.

F-128

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Interest expense on the junior subordinated debt securities
    underlying the common equity units was $6 million,
    $84 million and $104 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Other
    Junior Subordinated Debt Securities   

Other outstanding junior subordinated debt securities and trust
    securities which MetLife, Inc. will exchange for junior
    subordinated debt securities prior to redemption or repayment
    are as follows:

(1)  

MetLife Capital Trust X and MetLife Capital Trust IV
    are VIEs which are consolidated in the financial statements of
    the Company. The securities issued by these entities are
    exchangeable surplus trust securities, which will be exchanged
    for a like amount of the Holding Company s junior
    subordinated debt securities on the scheduled redemption date;
    mandatorily under certain circumstances, and at any time upon
    the Holding Company exercising its option to redeem the
    securities. The exchangeable surplus trust securities are
    classified as junior subordinated debt securities for purposes
    of financial statement presentation. 

(2)  

Prior to the scheduled redemption date, interest is payable
    semiannually in arrears. 

(3)  

In the event the securities are not redeemed on or before the
    scheduled redemption date, interest will accrue after such date
    at an annual rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus a margin, payable quarterly in arrears. 

In connection with each of the securities described above, the
    Holding Company may redeem or may cause the redemption of the
    securities (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after
    the date five years prior to the scheduled redemption date at
    their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but
    excluding, the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain
    circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to the date five years
    prior to the scheduled redemption date at their principal amount
    plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of
    redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price. The Holding
    Company also has the right to, and in certain circumstances the
    requirement to, defer interest payments on the securities for a
    period up to ten years. Interest compounds during such periods
    of deferral. If interest is deferred for more than five
    consecutive years, the Holding Company is required to use
    proceeds from the sale of its common stock or warrants on common
    stock to satisfy interest payment obligation. In connection with
    each of the securities described above, the Holding Company
    entered into a replacement capital covenant ( RCC ).
    As part of the RCC, the Holding Company agreed that it will not
    repay, redeem, or purchase the securities on or before a date
    ten years prior to the final maturity date of each issuance,
    unless, subject to certain limitations, it has received proceeds
    during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement
    securities. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of
    certain events, including an acceleration of the securities due
    to the occurrence of an event of default. The RCC is not
    intended for the benefit of holders of the securities and may
    not be enforced by them. The RCC is for the benefit of holders
    of one or more other designated series of the Holding
    Company s indebtedness (which will initially be its
    5.70% senior notes due June 2035). The Holding Company also
    entered into a replacement capital obligation which will
    commence during the six month period prior to the scheduled
    redemption date and under which the Holding Company must use
    reasonable commercial efforts to raise replacement capital to
    permit repayment of the securities through the issuance of
    certain qualifying capital securities.

F-129

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Issuance costs associated with the issuance of the securities of
    $5 million, $8 million and $10 million were
    incurred during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively. These issuance costs have been capitalized,
    are included in other assets, and are amortized over the period
    from the issuance date until the scheduled redemption date of
    the respective issuances. Interest expense on other junior
    subordinated debt securities was $231 million,
    $186 million and $83 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

In connection with financing the acquisition of The Travelers
    Insurance Company on July 1, 2005, the Holding Company
    distributed and sold 82.8 million 6.375% common equity
    units for $2,070 million in proceeds in a registered public
    offering on June 21, 2005. The common equity units
    consisted of interests in trust preferred securities issued by
    MetLife Capital Trusts II and III, and stock purchase
    contracts issued by the Holding Company. The only assets of
    MetLife Capital Trusts II and III were junior
    subordinated debt securities issued by the Holding Company. The
    common equity units ceased to exist upon the closing of the
    remarketing of the underlying debt instruments and the
    settlement of the stock purchase contracts in August 2008 and
    February 2009. See Notes 13 and 18.

The provision for income tax from continuing operations is as
    follows:

F-130

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The reconciliation of the income tax provision at the
    U.S. statutory rate to the provision for income tax as
    reported for continuing operations is as follows:

Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences
    between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Net
    deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the
    following:

Domestic net operating loss carryforwards amount to
    $1,998 million at December 31, 2009 and will expire
    beginning in 2020. Foreign net operating loss carryforwards
    amount to $669 million at December 31, 2009 and were
    generated in various foreign countries with expiration periods
    of five years to indefinite expiration. Domestic

F-131

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

capital loss carryforwards amount to $1,525 million at
    December 31, 2009 and will expire beginning in 2010.
    Foreign capital loss carryforwards amount to $51 million at
    December 31, 2009 and will expire beginning in 2014. Tax
    credit carryforwards amount to $401 million at
    December 31, 2009.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance related to tax
    benefits of certain foreign net operating and capital loss
    carryforwards and certain foreign unrealized losses. The
    valuation allowance reflects management s assessment, based
    on available information, that it is more likely than not that
    the deferred income tax asset for certain foreign net operating
    and capital loss carryforwards and certain foreign unrealized
    losses will not be realized. The tax benefit will be recognized
    when management believes that it is more likely than not that
    these deferred income tax assets are realizable. In 2009, the
    Company recorded an overall decrease to the deferred tax
    valuation allowance of $55 million, comprised of a decrease
    of $80 million related to certain foreign unrealized
    losses, an increase of $13 million related to certain
    foreign capital loss carryforwards and an increase of
    $12 million related to certain foreign net operating loss
    carryforwards.

The Company has not established a valuation allowance against
    the deferred tax asset of $816 million recognized in
    connection with unrealized losses at December 31, 2009,
    other than the $2 million of valuation allowance recognized
    in connection with certain foreign unrealized losses. A
    valuation allowance was not considered necessary based upon the
    Company s intent and ability to hold such securities until
    their recovery or maturity and the existence of tax-planning
    strategies that include sources of future taxable income against
    which such losses could be offset.

The Company files income tax returns with the U.S. federal
    government and various state and local jurisdictions, as well as
    foreign jurisdictions. The Company is under continuous
    examination by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS )
    and other tax authorities in jurisdictions in which the Company
    has significant business operations. The income tax years under
    examination vary by jurisdiction. With a few exceptions, the
    Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and
    local, or foreign income tax examinations by tax authorities for
    years prior to 2000. In early 2009, the Company and the IRS
    completed and substantially settled the audit years of 2000 to
    2002. A few issues not settled have been escalated to the next
    level, IRS Appeals. The IRS exam of the next audit cycle, years
    2003 to 2005, is expected to begin in early 2010.

The Company classifies interest accrued related to unrecognized
    tax benefits in interest expense, while penalties are included
    within income tax expense.

At December 31, 2007, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $840 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $565 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by
    $92 million from January 1, 2007 primarily due to
    settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain
    significant issues involving demutualization, post-sale purchase
    price adjustments and reinsurance offset by additions for tax
    positions of the current year. As a result of the settlements,
    items within the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, in the
    amount of $177 million, were reclassified to current and
    deferred income tax payable, as applicable, and a payment of
    $156 million was made in December of 2007, with
    $6 million paid in 2009 and the remaining $15 million
    to be paid in future years.

At December 31, 2008, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $766 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $567 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits decreased by
    $74 million from December 31, 2007 primarily due to
    settlements reached with the IRS with respect to certain
    significant issues involving demutualization, leasing and tax
    credits offset by additions for tax positions of the current
    year. As a result of the settlements, items within the liability
    for unrecognized tax benefits, in the amount of
    $153 million, were reclassified to current and deferred
    income tax payable, as applicable, of which $20 million was
    paid in 2008 and $133 million was paid in 2009.

At December 31, 2009, the Company s total amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits was $773 million and the total
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
    effective tax rate, if recognized, was $583 million. The
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits increased by
    $7 million from December 31, 2008 primarily due to

F-132

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

additions for tax positions of the current and prior years
    offset by settlements reached with the IRS. Settlements with tax
    authorities amounted to $46 million, of which
    $44 million was reclassified to current income tax payable
    and paid in 2009 and $2 million reduced current income tax
    expense.

The Company s liability for unrecognized tax benefits may
    decrease in the next 12 months pending the outcome of
    remaining issues, tax-exempt income and tax credits, associated
    with the 2000 to 2002 IRS audit. A reasonable estimate of
    decrease cannot be made at this time. However, the Company
    continues to believe that the ultimate resolution of the issues
    will not result in a material change to its consolidated
    financial statements, although the resolution of income tax
    matters could impact the Company s effective tax rate for a
    particular future period.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
    recognized $81 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2007, the Company had $218 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $8 million increase from January 1,
    2007 in accrued interest associated with the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an increase of
    $81 million of interest expense and a $73 million
    decrease primarily resulting from the aforementioned IRS
    settlements. The $73 million was reclassified to current
    income tax payable in 2007 and paid in 2009.

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company
    recognized $37 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2008, the Company had $176 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $42 million decrease from
    December 31, 2007 in accrued interest associated with the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an
    increase of $37 million of interest expense and a
    $79 million decrease primarily resulting from the
    aforementioned IRS settlements. Of the $79 million
    decrease, $78 million was reclassified to current income
    tax payable in 2008, with $7 million and $71 million
    paid in 2008 and 2009, respectively. The remaining
    $1 million reduced interest expense.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    recognized $44 million in interest expense associated with
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. At
    December 31, 2009, the Company had $198 million of
    accrued interest associated with the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits. The $22 million increase from
    December 31, 2008 in accrued interest associated with the
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from an
    increase of $44 million of interest expense and a
    $22 million decrease primarily resulting from the
    aforementioned IRS settlements. Of the $22 million
    decrease, $20 million has been reclassified to current
    income tax payable and was paid in 2009. The remaining
    $2 million reduced interest expense.

F-133

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS have indicated
    that they intend to address through regulations the methodology
    to be followed in determining the dividends received deduction
    ( DRD ), related to variable life insurance and
    annuity contracts. The DRD reduces the amount of dividend income
    subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference
    between the actual tax expense and expected amount determined
    using the federal statutory tax rate of 35%. Any regulations
    that the IRS ultimately proposes for issuance in this area will
    be subject to public notice and comment, at which time insurance
    companies and other interested parties will have the opportunity
    to raise legal and practical questions about the content, scope
    and application of such regulations. As a result, the ultimate
    timing and substance of any such regulations are unknown at this
    time. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the
    Company recognized an income tax benefit of $216 million
    and $179 million, respectively, related to the separate
    account DRD. The 2009 benefit included a benefit of
    $33 million related to a
     true-up  of
    the prior year tax return.

16.    

Contingencies,
    Commitments and Guarantees  

Contingencies  

Litigation   

The Company is a defendant in a large number of litigation
    matters. In some of the matters, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Modern pleading practice in the United States
    permits considerable variation in the assertion of monetary
    damages or other relief. Jurisdictions may permit claimants not
    to specify the monetary damages sought or may permit claimants
    to state only that the amount sought is sufficient to invoke the
    jurisdiction of the trial court. In addition, jurisdictions may
    permit plaintiffs to allege monetary damages in amounts well
    exceeding reasonably possible verdicts in the jurisdiction for
    similar matters. This variability in pleadings, together with
    the actual experience of the Company in litigating or resolving
    through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of
    time, demonstrate to management that the monetary relief which
    may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to
    its merits or disposition value. Thus, unless stated below, the
    specific monetary relief sought is not noted.

Due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation
    matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular
    points in time may normally be inherently impossible to
    ascertain with any degree of certainty. Inherent uncertainties
    can include how fact finders will view individually and in their
    totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness
    of witnesses  testimony and how trial and appellate courts
    will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence
    presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal.
    Disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of
    how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the
    relevant evidence and applicable law.

On a quarterly and annual basis, the Company reviews relevant
    information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be
    reflected in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements. In 2007, the Company received $39 million upon
    the resolution of an indemnification claim associated with the
    2000 acquisition of General American Life Insurance Company
    ( GALIC ), and the Company reduced legal liabilities
    by $38 million after the settlement of certain cases. The
    review includes senior legal and financial personnel. Unless
    stated below, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for
    particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a
    reasonable degree of certainty. Liabilities are established when
    it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of
    the loss can be reasonably estimated. Liabilities have been
    established for a number of the matters noted below. In 2009,
    the Company increased legal liabilities for litigation matters
    pending against the Company. It is possible that some of the
    matters could require the Company to pay damages or make other
    expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be
    estimated at December 31, 2009.

F-134

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Asbestos-Related
    Claims  

MLIC is and has been a defendant in a large number of
    asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts. These
    suits principally allege that the plaintiff or plaintiffs
    suffered personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos and
    seek both actual and punitive damages. MLIC has never engaged in
    the business of manufacturing, producing, distributing or
    selling asbestos or asbestos-containing products nor has MLIC
    issued liability or workers  compensation insurance to
    companies in the business of manufacturing, producing,
    distributing or selling asbestos or asbestos-containing
    products. The lawsuits principally have focused on allegations
    with respect to certain research, publication and other
    activities of one or more of MLIC s employees during the
    period from the 1920 s through approximately the
    1950 s and allege that MLIC learned or should have learned
    of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other
    things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health
    risks. MLIC believes that it should not have legal liability in
    these cases. The outcome of most asbestos litigation matters,
    however, is uncertain and can be impacted by numerous variables,
    including differences in legal rulings in various jurisdictions,
    the nature of the alleged injury and factors unrelated to the
    ultimate legal merit of the claims asserted against MLIC. MLIC
    employs a number of resolution strategies to manage its asbestos
    loss exposure, including seeking resolution of pending
    litigation by judicial rulings and settling individual or groups
    of claims or lawsuits under appropriate circumstances.

Claims asserted against MLIC have included negligence,
    intentional tort and conspiracy concerning the health risks
    associated with asbestos. MLIC s defenses (beyond denial of
    certain factual allegations) include that: (i) MLIC owed no
    duty to the plaintiffs  it had no special relationship
    with the plaintiffs and did not manufacture, produce, distribute
    or sell the asbestos products that allegedly injured plaintiffs;
    (ii) plaintiffs did not rely on any actions of MLIC;
    (iii) MLIC s conduct was not the cause of the
    plaintiffs  injuries; (iv) plaintiffs  exposure
    occurred after the dangers of asbestos were known; and
    (v) the applicable time with respect to filing suit has
    expired. During the course of the litigation, certain trial
    courts have granted motions dismissing claims against MLIC,
    while other trial courts have denied MLIC s motions to
    dismiss. There can be no assurance that MLIC will receive
    favorable decisions on motions in the future. While most cases
    brought to date have settled, MLIC intends to continue to defend
    aggressively against claims based on asbestos exposure,
    including defending claims at trials.

The approximate total number of asbestos personal injury claims
    pending against MLIC as of the dates indicated, the approximate
    number of new claims during the years ended on those dates and
    the approximate total settlement payments made to resolve
    asbestos personal injury claims at or during those years are set
    forth in the following table:

(1)  

Settlement payments represent payments made by MLIC during the
    year in connection with settlements made in that year and in
    prior years. Amounts do not include MLIC s attorneys 
    fees and expenses and do not reflect amounts received from
    insurance carriers. 

In 2006, MLIC received approximately 7,870 new claims, ending
    the year with a total of approximately 87,070 claims, and paid
    approximately $35.5 million for settlements reached in 2006
    and prior years. In 2005, MLIC received approximately 18,500 new
    claims, ending the year with a total of approximately 100,250
    claims, and paid approximately $74.3 million for
    settlements reached in 2005 and prior years. In 2004, MLIC
    received approximately 23,900 new claims, ending the year with a
    total of approximately 108,000 claims, and paid approximately
    $85.5 million for settlements reached in 2004 and prior
    years. In 2003, MLIC received approximately 58,750 new claims,
    ending the year with a total of approximately 111,700 claims,
    and paid

F-135

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

approximately $84.2 million for settlements reached in 2003
    and prior years. The number of asbestos cases that may be
    brought, the aggregate amount of any liability that MLIC may
    incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given
    year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year.

The ability of MLIC to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure
    is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions
    impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change.
    The availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult
    to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can
    affect liability estimates, including the number of future
    claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity
    of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the
    number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and
    variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are
    filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the
    willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims
    against MLIC when exposure to asbestos took place after the
    dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of
    any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts.

The ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos
    exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years
    further in the future. In the Company s judgment, there is
    a future point after which losses cease to be probable and
    reasonably estimable. It is reasonably possible that the
    Company s total exposure to asbestos claims may be
    materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued
    and that future charges to income may be necessary. While the
    potential future charges could be material in the particular
    quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded, based on
    information currently known by management, management does not
    believe any such charges are likely to have a material adverse
    effect on the Company s financial position.

During 1998, MLIC paid $878 million in premiums for excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims. The excess
    insurance policies for asbestos-related claims provided for
    recovery of losses up to $1.5 billion in excess of a
    $400 million self-insured retention. The Company s
    initial option to commute the excess insurance policies for
    asbestos-related claims would have arisen at the end of 2008. On
    September 29, 2008, MLIC entered into agreements commuting
    the excess insurance policies at September 30, 2008. As a
    result of the commutation of the policies, MLIC received cash
    and securities totaling $632 million. Of this total, MLIC
    received $115 million in fixed maturity securities on
    September 26, 2008, $200 million in cash on
    October 29, 2008, and $317 million in cash on
    January 29, 2009. MLIC recognized a loss on commutation of
    the policies in the amount of $35.3 million during 2008.

In the years prior to commutation, the excess insurance policies
    for asbestos-related claims were subject to annual and per claim
    sublimits. Amounts exceeding the sublimits during 2007, 2006 and
    2005 were approximately $16 million, $8 million and
    $0, respectively. Amounts were recoverable under the policies
    annually with respect to claims paid during the prior calendar
    year. Each asbestos-related policy contained an experience fund
    and a reference fund that provided for payments to MLIC at the
    commutation date if the reference fund was greater than zero at
    commutation or pro rata reductions from time to time in the loss
    reimbursements to MLIC if the cumulative return on the reference
    fund was less than the return specified in the experience fund.
    The return in the reference fund was tied to performance of the
    S P 500 Index and the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index.
    A claim with respect to the prior year was made under the excess
    insurance policies in each year from 2003 through 2008 for the
    amounts paid with respect to asbestos litigation in excess of
    the retention. The foregone loss reimbursements were
    approximately $62.2 million with respect to claims for the
    period of 2002 through 2007. Because the policies were commuted
    at September 30, 2008, there will be no claims under the
    policies or forgone loss reimbursements with respect to payments
    made in 2008 and thereafter.

The Company believes adequate provision has been made in its
    consolidated financial statements for all probable and
    reasonably estimable losses for asbestos-related claims.
    MLIC s recorded asbestos liability is based on its
    estimation of the following elements, as informed by the facts
    presently known to it, its understanding of current law and its
    past experiences: (i) the probable and reasonably estimable
    liability for asbestos claims already asserted against MLIC,
    including claims settled but not yet paid; (ii) the
    probable and reasonably estimable liability for asbestos claims
    not yet asserted against MLIC, but which MLIC believes are
    reasonably probable of assertion; and (iii) the legal
    defense costs associated with the foregoing claims. Significant
    assumptions underlying MLIC s

F-136

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

analysis of the adequacy of its recorded liability with respect
    to asbestos litigation include: (i) the number of future
    claims; (ii) the cost to resolve claims; and (iii) the
    cost to defend claims.

MLIC reevaluates on a quarterly and annual basis its exposure
    from asbestos litigation, including studying its claims
    experience, reviewing external literature regarding asbestos
    claims experience in the United States, assessing relevant
    trends impacting asbestos liability and considering numerous
    variables that can affect its asbestos liability exposure on an
    overall or per claim basis. These variables include bankruptcies
    of other companies involved in asbestos litigation, legislative
    and judicial developments, the number of pending claims
    involving serious disease, the number of new claims filed
    against it and other defendants and the jurisdictions in which
    claims are pending. As previously disclosed, in 2002 MLIC
    increased its recorded liability for asbestos-related claims by
    $402 million from approximately $820 million to
    $1,225 million. Based upon its regular reevaluation of its
    exposure from asbestos litigation, MLIC has updated its
    liability analysis for asbestos-related claims through
    December 31, 2009.

Regulatory
    Matters  

The Company receives and responds to subpoenas or other
    inquiries from state regulators, including state insurance
    commissioners; state attorneys general or other state
    governmental authorities; federal regulators, including the SEC;
    federal governmental authorities, including congressional
    committees; and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
    ( FINRA ) seeking a broad range of information. The
    issues involved in information requests and regulatory matters
    vary widely. Certain regulators have requested information and
    documents regarding contingent commission payments to brokers,
    the Company s awareness of any  sham  bids for
    business, bids and quotes that the Company submitted to
    potential customers, incentive agreements entered into with
    brokers, or compensation paid to intermediaries. The Company has
    received a subpoena from and has had discussions with the Office
    of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of
    California regarding the insurance broker Universal Life
    Resources. The Florida insurance regulator has initiated
    discussions with the Company regarding its investigation of
    contingent payments made to brokers. The Massachusetts Office of
    the Attorney General has been conducting a civil investigation
    of the rating practices of motorcycle insurers in Massachusetts
    including Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company
    ( MPC ). MPC has reached an agreement with the
    Massachusetts Office of the Attorney General to resolve this
    matter by refunding premiums with interest to affected
    policyholders. The Company has been cooperating fully in these
    inquiries.

In June 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a
    Notice of Violation ( NOV ) regarding the operations
    of the Homer City Generating Station, an electrical generation
    facility. The NOV alleges, among other things, that the
    electrical generation facility is being operated in violation of
    certain federal and state Clean Air Act requirements. Homer City
    OL6 LLC, an entity owned by MLIC, is a passive investor with a
    noncontrolling interest in the electrical generation facility,
    which is solely operated by the lessee, EME Homer City
    Generation L.P. ( EME Homer ). Homer City OL6 LLC and
    EME Homer are among the respondents identified in the NOV. EME
    Homer has been notified of its obligation to indemnify Homer
    City OL6 LLC and MLIC for any claims resulting from the NOV and
    has expressly acknowledged its obligation to indemnify Homer
    City OL6 LLC.

Regulatory authorities in a small number of states and FINRA
    have had investigations or inquiries relating to sales of
    individual life insurance policies or annuities or other
    products by MLIC, MICC, New England Mutual Life Insurance
    Company, New England Life Insurance Company and GALIC, and the
    four Company broker dealers, which are MetLife Securities, Inc.
    ( MSI ), New England Securities Corporation, Walnut
    Street Securities, Inc. and Tower Square Securities, Inc. Over
    the past several years, these and a number of investigations by
    other regulatory authorities were resolved for monetary payments
    and certain other relief. The Company may continue to resolve
    investigations in a similar manner.

MSI is a defendant in two regulatory matters brought by the
    Illinois Department of Securities. In 2005, MSI received a
    notice from the Illinois Department of Securities asserting
    possible violations of the Illinois Securities Act in connection
    with alleged failure to disclose portability with respect to
    sales of a former affiliate s mutual funds and
    representative compensation with respect to proprietary
    products. A response has been submitted and in

F-137

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

January 2008, MSI received notice of the commencement of an
    administrative action by the Illinois Department of Securities.
    In May 2008, MSI s motion to dismiss the action was denied.
    In the second matter, in December 2008 MSI received a Notice of
    Hearing from the Illinois Department of Securities based upon a
    complaint alleging that MSI failed to reasonably supervise one
    of its former registered representatives in connection with the
    sale of variable annuities to Illinois investors. MSI intends to
    vigorously defend against the claims in these matters.

On April 14, 2009, MSI received a Wells Notice from FINRA
    stating that FINRA was considering recommending that a
    disciplinary action be brought against MSI. FINRA contended that
    during the period from March 1999 through December 2006,
    MSI s registered representative supervisory system was not
    reasonably designed to achieve compliance with National
    Association of Securities Dealers Conduct Rules relating to the
    review of registered representatives  electronic
    correspondence, private securities transactions and outside
    business activities. In November 2009, the Company and FINRA
    reached a settlement resolving the matter on behalf of the four
    Company broker dealers, which included payment of a penalty. The
    four Company broker dealers neither admitted nor denied
    FINRA s findings.

Demutualization
    Actions  

The Company is a defendant in two lawsuits challenging the
    fairness of the Plan and the adequacy and accuracy of
    MLIC s disclosure to policyholders regarding the Plan. The
    plaintiffs in the consolidated state court class action,
     Fiala, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al.
    (Sup. Ct., N.Y. County, filed March 17, 2000) , sought
    compensatory relief and punitive damages against MLIC, the
    Holding Company, and individual directors. The court certified a
    litigation class of present and former policyholders on
    plaintiffs  claim that defendants violated
    section 7312 of the New York Insurance Law. The plaintiffs
    in the consolidated federal court class action,  In re MetLife
    Demutualization Litig. (E.D.N.Y., filed April 18,
    2000) , sought rescission and compensatory damages against
    MLIC and the Holding Company. Plaintiffs asserted violations of
    the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934 ( Exchange Act ) in connection with the Plan,
    claiming that the Policyholder Information Booklets failed to
    disclose certain material facts and contained certain material
    misstatements. The court certified a litigation class of present
    and former policyholders. On November 4, and 5, 2009, the
    courts in these cases issued orders preliminarily approving a
    proposed settlement of this litigation and directing the parties
    to give notice of the proposed settlement to the class. On
    December 30, 2009 and February 9, 2010, the courts
    conducted a hearing jointly to determine the fairness of the
    proposed settlement, class counsel s fee request, and other
    matters. On December 30, 2009, the federal court issued an
    order holding that the notice given to the class members
    concerning the proposed settlement was adequate under federal
    law. On February 12, 2010, the federal court approved the
    settlement in an order that will become effective upon the state
    court s issuance of its order approving the settlement.

Other
    Litigation  

Travelers Ins. Co., et al. v. Banc of America Securities
    LLC (S.D.N.Y., filed December 13, 2001).   On
    January 6, 2009, after a jury trial ,  the district
    court entered a judgment in favor of The Travelers Insurance
    Company, now known as MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut,
    in the amount of approximately $42 million in connection
    with securities and common law claims against the defendant. On
    May 14, 2009, the district court issued an opinion and
    order denying the defendant s post judgment motion seeking
    a judgment in its favor or, in the alternative, a new trial. On
    June 3, 2009, the defendant filed a notice of appeal from
    the January 6, 2009 judgment and the May 14, 2009
    opinion and order. As it is possible that the judgment could be
    affected during appellate practice, and the Company has not
    collected any portion of the judgment, the Company has not
    recognized any award amount in its consolidated financial
    statements.

Shipley v. St. Paul Fire and Marine Ins. Co. and
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (Ill. Cir. Ct.,
    Madison County, filed February 26 and July 2,
    2003).   Two putative nationwide class actions have
    been filed against Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance
    Company in Illinois. One suit claims breach of contract and

F-138

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

fraud due to the alleged underpayment of medical claims arising
    from the use of a purportedly biased provider fee pricing
    system. The second suit currently alleges breach of contract
    arising from the alleged use of preferred provider organizations
    to reduce medical provider fees covered by the medical claims
    portion of the insurance policy. Motions for class certification
    have been filed and briefed in both cases.  Simon v.
    Metropolitan Property and Casualty Ins. Co. (W.D. Okla., filed
    September 23, 2008),  a third putative nationwide class
    action lawsuit relating to payment of medical providers, is
    pending in federal court in Oklahoma. The Company is vigorously
    defending against the claims in these matters.

The American Dental Association, et al. v. MetLife Inc., et
    al. (S.D. Fla., filed May 19, 2003).   The
    American Dental Association and three individual providers had
    sued the Holding Company, MLIC and other non-affiliated
    insurance companies in a putative class action lawsuit. The
    plaintiffs purported to represent a nationwide class of
     in-network 
    providers who alleged that their claims were being wrongfully
    reduced by downcoding, bundling, and the improper use and
    programming of software. The complaint alleged federal
    racketeering and various state law theories of liability. All of
    plaintiffs  claims except for breach of contract claims
    were dismissed with prejudice on March 2, 2009. By order
    dated March 20, 2009, the district court declined to retain
    jurisdiction over the remaining breach of contract claims and
    dismissed the lawsuit. On April 17, 2009, plaintiffs filed
    a notice of appeal from this order.

In Re Ins. Brokerage Antitrust Litig. (D. N.J., filed
    February 24, 2005).   In this multi-district
    class action proceeding, plaintiffs  complaint alleged that
    the Holding Company, MLIC, several non-affiliated insurance
    companies and several insurance brokers violated the Racketeer
    Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), the
    Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ), and antitrust laws and committed other
    misconduct in the context of providing insurance to employee
    benefit plans and to persons who participate in such employee
    benefit plans. In August and September 2007 and January 2008,
    the court issued orders granting defendants  motions to
    dismiss with prejudice the federal antitrust, the RICO, and the
    ERISA claims. In February 2008, the court dismissed the
    remaining state law claims on jurisdictional grounds.
    Plaintiffs  appeal from the orders dismissing their RICO
    and federal antitrust claims is pending with the U.S. Court
    of Appeals for the Third Circuit. A putative class action
    alleging that the Holding Company and other non-affiliated
    defendants violated state laws was transferred to the District
    of New Jersey but was not consolidated with other related
    actions. Plaintiffs  motion to remand this action to state
    court in Florida is pending.

Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Park Avenue Securities,
    et. al. (FINRA Arbitration, filed May 2006).   MLIC
    commenced an action against Park Avenue Securities LLC., a
    registered investment adviser and broker-dealer that is an
    indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of The Guardian Life Insurance
    Company of America, alleging misappropriation of confidential
    and proprietary information and use of prohibited methods to
    solicit the Company s customers and recruit the
    Company s financial services representatives. On
    February 12, 2009, a FINRA arbitration panel awarded MLIC
    $21 million in damages, including punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees. In March 2009, Park Avenue Securities
    filed a motion to vacate the decision. In September 2009, the
    parties reached a settlement of this action together with
    related and similar matters brought by MLIC against Park Avenue
    Securities and The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America.

Roberts, et al. v. Tishman Speyer Properties, et al. (Sup.
    Ct., N.Y. County, filed January 22,
    2007) .  This lawsuit was filed by a putative class
    of market rate tenants at Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper
    Village against parties including Metropolitan Tower Life
    Insurance Company and Metropolitan Insurance and Annuity
    Company. These tenants claim that the Company, as former owner,
    and the current owner improperly deregulated apartments while
    receiving J-51 tax abatements. The lawsuit seeks declaratory
    relief and damages for rent overcharges. In August 2007, the
    trial court granted the Company s motion to dismiss. In
    March 2009, New York s intermediate appellate court
    reversed the trial court s decision and reinstated the
    lawsuit. The defendants appealed this ruling to the New York
    State Court of Appeals, which in October 2009 issued an opinion
    affirming the ruling of the intermediate appellate court. The
    lawsuit has returned to the trial court for further proceedings
    but is temporarily

F-139

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

stayed to allow for settlement discussions between the current
    owner and plaintiffs. The Company will continue to vigorously
    defend against the claims against it in the lawsuit.

Thomas, et al. v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co., et al. (W.D.
    Okla., filed January 31, 2007).   A putative
    class action complaint was filed against MLIC and MSI.
    Plaintiffs asserted legal theories of violations of the federal
    securities laws and violations of state laws with respect to the
    sale of certain proprietary products by the Company s
    agency distribution group. Plaintiffs sought rescission,
    compensatory damages, interest, punitive damages and
    attorneys  fees and expenses. In August 2009, the court
    granted defendants  motion for summary judgment. On
    September 29, 2009, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal
    from the court s order dismissing the lawsuit.

Sales Practices Claims.   Over the past several
    years, the Company has faced numerous claims, including class
    action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of
    individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or
    other products. Some of the current cases seek substantial
    damages, including punitive and treble damages and
    attorneys  fees. At December 31, 2009, there were
    approximately 130 sales practices litigation matters pending
    against the Company. The Company continues to vigorously defend
    against the claims in these matters. The Company believes
    adequate provision has been made in its consolidated financial
    statements for all probable and reasonably estimable losses for
    sales practices matters.

Summary  

Putative or certified class action litigation and other
    litigation and claims and assessments against the Company, in
    addition to those discussed previously and those otherwise
    provided for in the Company s consolidated financial
    statements, have arisen in the course of the Company s
    business, including, but not limited to, in connection with its
    activities as an insurer, employer, investor, investment advisor
    and taxpayer. Further, state insurance regulatory authorities
    and other federal and state authorities regularly make inquiries
    and conduct investigations concerning the Company s
    compliance with applicable insurance and other laws and
    regulations.

It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of all
    pending investigations and legal proceedings or provide
    reasonable ranges of potential losses, except as noted
    previously in connection with specific matters. In some of the
    matters referred to previously, very large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages,
    are sought. Although in light of these considerations it is
    possible that an adverse outcome in certain cases could have a
    material adverse effect upon the Company s financial
    position, based on information currently known by the
    Company s management, in its opinion, the outcomes of such
    pending investigations and legal proceedings are not likely to
    have such an effect. However, given the large
     and/or 
    indeterminate amounts sought in certain of these matters and the
    inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an
    adverse outcome in certain matters could, from time to time,
    have a material adverse effect on the Company s
    consolidated net income or cash flows in particular quarterly or
    annual periods.

Insolvency
    Assessments   

Most of the jurisdictions in which the Company is admitted to
    transact business require insurers doing business within the
    jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are
    organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance
    policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. These
    associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all
    member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the
    proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers
    in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or
    failed insurer

F-140

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

engaged. Some states permit member insurers to recover
    assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.
    Assets and liabilities held for insolvency assessments are as
    follows:

(1)  

The Company holds a receivable from the seller of a prior
    acquisition in accordance with the purchase agreement. 

Assessments levied against the Company were $2 million,
    $2 million and ($1) million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Argentina   

The Argentine economic, regulatory and legal environment,
    including interpretations of laws and regulations by regulators
    and courts, is uncertain. Potential legal or governmental
    actions related to pension reform, fiduciary responsibilities,
    performance guarantees and tax rulings could adversely affect
    the results of the Company.

In 2007, pension reform legislation in Argentina was enacted
    which relieved the Company of its obligation to provide death
    and disability policy coverages and resulted in the elimination
    of related insurance liabilities. The reform reinstituted the
    government s pension plan system and allowed for pension
    participants to transfer their future contributions to the
    government pension plan system.

Although it no longer received compensation, the Company
    continued to be responsible for managing the funds of those
    participants that transferred to the government system. This
    change resulted in the establishment of a liability for future
    servicing obligations and the elimination of the Company s
    obligations under death and disability policy coverages. The
    impact of the 2007 Argentine pension reform was an increase to
    net income of $114 million, net of income tax, due to the
    reduction of the insurance liabilities and other balances
    associated with the death and disability coverages of
    $197 million, net of income tax, which exceeded the
    establishment of the liability for future service obligations of
    $83 million, net of income tax, during the year ended
    December 31, 2007. During 2008, the future servicing
    obligation was reduced by $23 million, net of income tax,
    when information regarding the level of participation in the
    government pension plan became fully available.

In September 2008, the Argentine Supreme Court ruled against the
    validity of the 2002 Pesification Law enacted by the Argentine
    government. This ruling applied to certain social security
    pension annuity contractholders that had filed a lawsuit against
    the 2002 Pesification Law. The annuity contracts impacted by
    this ruling, which were deemed peso denominated under the 2002
    Pesification Law, are now considered to be U.S. Dollar
    denominated obligations of the Company. The applicable
    contingent liabilities were then adjusted and refined to be
    consistent with this ruling. The impact of the refinements
    resulting from the change in these contingent liabilities and
    the associated future policyholder benefits was an increase to
    net income of $34 million, net of income tax, during the
    year ended December 31, 2008.

In October 2008, the Argentine government announced its
    intention to nationalize private pensions and, in December 2008,
    the Argentine government nationalized the private pension system
    seizing the underlying

F-141

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

investments of participants which were being managed by the
    Company ( Nationalization ). With this action, the
    Company s pension business in Argentina ceased to exist and
    the Company eliminated certain assets and liabilities held in
    connection with the pension business. Deferred acquisition
    costs, deferred tax assets, and liabilities  
    primarily the liability for future servicing obligation referred
    to above   were eliminated and the Company incurred
    severance costs associated with the termination of employees.
    The impact of the elimination of assets and liabilities and the
    incurral of severance costs was an increase to net income of
    $6 million, net of income tax, during the year ended
    December 31, 2008.

As part of Nationalization, the Company may receive compensation
    from the Argentine government for the loss of the pension
    business in the form of government bonds. The amount of any such
    compensation, as well as the terms and value of the government
    bonds to be received, cannot be determined at this time. The
    compensation will only be reflected in the consolidated
    financial statements of the Company if and when the fair value
    of the compensation is received.

In March 2009, in light of market developments resulting from
    the Supreme Court ruling contrary to the Pesification Law and
    the implementation by the Company of a program to allow the
    contractholders that had not filed a lawsuit to convert to
    U.S. Dollars the social security annuity contracts
    denominated in pesos by the Pesification Law, the Company
    further reduced the outstanding contingent liabilities by
    $108 million, net of income tax, which was partially offset
    by the establishment of contingent liabilities from the
    implementation of the program to convert these contracts to
    U.S. Dollars of $13 million, net of income tax,
    resulting in a decrease to net loss of $95 million, net of
    income tax, for the year ended December 31, 2009.

Further governmental or legal actions are possible in Argentina.
    Such actions may impact the level of existing liabilities or may
    create additional obligations or benefits to the Company s
    operations in Argentina. Management has made its best estimate
    of its obligations based upon information currently available;
    however, further governmental or legal actions could result in
    changes in obligations which could materially impact the amounts
    presented within the consolidated financial statements.

Commitments  

Leases   

In accordance with industry practice, certain of the
    Company s income from lease agreements with retail tenants
    are contingent upon the level of the tenants  revenues.
    Additionally, the Company, as lessee, has entered into various
    lease and sublease agreements for office space, information
    technology and other equipment. Future minimum rental and
    sublease income, and minimum gross rental payments relating to
    these lease agreements are as follows:

During 2008, the Company moved certain of its operations in New
    York from Long Island City to New York City. As a result of this
    movement of operations and current market conditions, which
    precluded the Company s immediate and complete sublet of
    all unused space in both Long Island City and New York City, the
    Company incurred a lease impairment charge of $38 million
    which is included within other expenses in Banking,
    Corporate  

F-142

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Other. The impairment charge was determined based upon the
    present value of the gross rental payments less sublease income
    discounted at a risk-adjusted rate over the remaining lease
    terms which range from
     15-20 years. 
    The Company has made assumptions with respect to the timing and
    amount of future sublease income in the determination of this
    impairment charge. During 2009, pending sublease deals were
    impacted by the further decline of market conditions, which
    resulted in an additional lease impairment charge of
    $52 million. See Note 19 for discussion of
    $28 million of such charges related to restructuring.
    Additional impairment charges could be incurred should market
    conditions deteriorate further or last for a period
    significantly longer than anticipated.

Commitments
    to Fund Partnership Investments   

The Company makes commitments to fund partnership investments in
    the normal course of business. The amounts of these unfunded
    commitments were $4.1 billion and $4.5 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company
    anticipates that these amounts will be invested in partnerships
    over the next five years.

Mortgage
    Loan Commitments   

The Company has issued interest rate lock commitments on certain
    residential mortgage loan applications totaling
    $2.7 billion and $8.0 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company intends to sell the
    majority of these originated residential mortgage loans.
    Interest rate lock commitments to fund mortgage loans that will
    be
     held-for-sale 
    are considered derivatives and their estimated fair value and
    notional amounts are included within interest rate forwards in
    Note 4.

The Company also commits to lend funds under certain other
    mortgage loan commitments that will be
     held-for-investment. 
    The amounts of these mortgage loan commitments were
    $2.2 billion and $2.7 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

Commitments
    to Fund Bank Credit Facilities, Bridge Loans and Private
    Corporate Bond Investments   

The Company commits to lend funds under bank credit facilities,
    bridge loans and private corporate bond investments. The amounts
    of these unfunded commitments were $1.3 billion and
    $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Guarantees   

In the normal course of its business, the Company has provided
    certain indemnities, guarantees and commitments to third parties
    pursuant to which it may be required to make payments now or in
    the future. In the context of acquisition, disposition,
    investment and other transactions, the Company has provided
    indemnities and guarantees, including those related to tax,
    environmental and other specific liabilities and other
    indemnities and guarantees that are triggered by, among other
    things, breaches of representations, warranties or covenants
    provided by the Company. In addition, in the normal course of
    business, the Company provides indemnifications to
    counterparties in contracts with triggers similar to the
    foregoing, as well as for certain other liabilities, such as
     third-party 
    lawsuits. These obligations are often subject to time
    limitations that vary in duration, including contractual
    limitations and those that arise by operation of law, such as
    applicable statutes of limitation. In some cases, the maximum
    potential obligation under the indemnities and guarantees is
    subject to a contractual limitation ranging from less than
    $1 million to $800 million, with a cumulative maximum
    of $1.6 billion, while in other cases such limitations are
    not specified or applicable. Since certain of these obligations
    are not subject to limitations, the Company does not believe
    that it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount
    that could become due under these guarantees in the future.
    Management believes that it is unlikely the Company will have to
    make any material payments under these indemnities, guarantees,
    or commitments.

In addition, the Company indemnifies its directors and officers
    as provided in its charters and by-laws. Also, the Company
    indemnifies its agents for liabilities incurred as a result of
    their representation of the Company s

F-143

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

interests. Since these indemnities are generally not subject to
    limitation with respect to duration or amount, the Company does
    not believe that it is possible to determine the maximum
    potential amount that could become due under these indemnities
    in the future.

The Company has also guaranteed minimum investment returns on
    certain international retirement funds in accordance with local
    laws. Since these guarantees are not subject to limitation with
    respect to duration or amount, the Company does not believe that
    it is possible to determine the maximum potential amount that
    could become due under these guarantees in the future.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company
    reduced $1 million of previously recorded liabilities
    related to certain investment transactions. The Company s
    recorded liabilities were $5 million and $6 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for indemnities,
    guarantees and commitments.

17.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

Pension
    and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor
     and/or 
    administer various qualified and non-qualified defined benefit
    pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans
    covering employees and sales representatives who meet specified
    eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are provided
    utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance formula.
    The traditional formula provides benefits based upon years of
    credited service and final average earnings. The cash balance
    formula utilizes hypothetical or notional accounts which credit
    participants with benefits equal to a percentage of eligible
    pay, as well as earnings credits, determined annually based upon
    the average annual rate of interest on
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury securities, for each account balance. At
    December 31, 2009, the majority of active participants are
    accruing benefits under the cash balance formula; however,
    approximately 92% of the Subsidiaries  obligations result
    from benefits calculated with the traditional formula. The
    non-qualified pension plans provide supplemental benefits in
    excess of limits applicable to a qualified plan.

The Subsidiaries also provide certain postemployment benefits
    and certain postretirement medical and life insurance benefits
    for retired employees. Employees of the Subsidiaries who were
    hired prior to 2003 (or, in certain cases, rehired during or
    after 2003) and meet age and service criteria while working
    for one of the Subsidiaries may become eligible for these other
    postretirement benefits, at various levels, in accordance with
    the applicable plans. Virtually all retirees, or their
    beneficiaries, contribute a portion of the total cost of
    postretirement medical benefits. Employees hired after 2003 are
    not eligible for any employer subsidy for postretirement medical
    benefits.

A December 31 measurement date is used for all of the
    Subsidiaries  defined benefit pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans.

F-144

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Obligations,
    Funded Status and Net Periodic Benefit Costs   

F-145

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The aggregate projected benefit obligation and aggregate fair
    value of plan assets for the pension plans were as follows:

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $6,231 million and $5,620 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The aggregate pension accumulated benefit obligation and
    aggregate fair value of plan assets for pension plans with
    accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets is as
    follows:

Information for pension and other postretirement benefit plans
    with a projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets is
    as follows:

Net periodic pension cost and net periodic other postretirement
    benefit plan cost are comprised of the following:

i) 

Service Cost   Service cost is the increase in the
    projected (expected) pension benefit obligation resulting from
    benefits payable to employees of the Subsidiaries on service
    rendered during the current year.

ii) 

Interest Cost on the Liability   Interest cost is the
    time value adjustment on the projected (expected) pension
    benefit obligation at the end of each year.

iii) 

Expected Return on Plan Assets   Expected return on
    plan assets is the assumed return earned by the accumulated
    (other) pension fund assets in a particular year.

iv) 

Amortization of Prior Service Cost   This cost relates
    to the recognition of increases or decreases in pension (other
    postretirement) benefit obligation due to amendments in plans or
    initiation of new plans. These increases or decreases in
    obligation are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive
    income at the time of the amendment. These costs are then
    amortized to pension (other postretirement benefit) expense over
    the expected service years of the employees affected by the
    change.

F-146

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

v) 

Amortization of Net Actuarial Gains or Losses  
    Actuarial gains and losses result from differences between the
    actual experience and the expected experience on pension (other
    postretirement) plan assets or projected (expected) pension
    benefit obligation during a particular period. These gains and
    losses are accumulated and, to the extent they exceed 10% of the
    greater of the PBO or the fair value of plan assets, the excess
    is amortized into pension (other postretirement benefit) expense
    over the expected service years of the employees.

The components of net periodic benefit cost and other changes in
    plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:

Included within other comprehensive income (loss) are other
    changes in plan assets and benefit obligations associated with
    pension benefits of $63 million and other postretirement
    benefits of $110 million for an aggregate reduction in
    other comprehensive income (loss) of $173 million before
    income tax and $102 million, net of income tax and
    noncontrolling interests.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service cost for
    the pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost over
    the next year are $203 million and $7 million,
    respectively.

The estimated net actuarial losses and prior service credit for
    the defined benefit other postretirement benefit plans that will
    be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    into net periodic benefit cost over the next year are
    $38 million and ($83) million, respectively.

F-147

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The Company receives subsidies under the Prescription Drug Act.
    A summary of the reduction to the APBO and related reduction to
    the components of net periodic other postretirement benefit plan
    cost is as follows:

The Company received subsidies of $12 million,
    $12 million and $10 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Assumptions  

Assumptions used in determining benefit obligations were as
    follows:

Assumptions used in determining net periodic benefit cost were
    as follows:

The discount rate is determined annually based on the yield,
    measured on a yield to worst basis, of a hypothetical portfolio
    constructed of high quality debt instruments available on the
    valuation date, which would provide the necessary future cash
    flows to pay the aggregate projected benefit obligation when due.

F-148

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on
    anticipated performance of the various asset sectors in which
    the plan invests, weighted by target allocation percentages.
    Anticipated future performance is based on long-term historical
    returns of the plan assets by sector, adjusted for the
    Subsidiaries  long-term expectations on the performance of
    the markets. While the precise expected return derived using
    this approach will fluctuate from year to year, the
    Subsidiaries  policy is to hold this long-term assumption
    constant as long as it remains within reasonable tolerance from
    the derived rate.

The weighted average expected return on plan assets for use in
    that plan s valuation in 2010 is currently anticipated to
    be 8.00% for pension benefits and postretirement medical
    benefits and 7.20% for postretirement life benefits.

The assumed healthcare cost trend rates used in measuring the
    APBO and net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

Assumed healthcare cost trend rates may have a significant
    effect on the amounts reported for healthcare plans. A
    one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend
    rates would have the following effects:

One Percent 

One Percent 

Increase 

Decrease 

(In millions) 

Effect on total of service and interest cost components

$

9

$

(10

)

Effect of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation

$

94

$

(103

)

Plan
    Assets   

The Subsidiaries have issued group annuity and life insurance
    contracts supporting the pension and other postretirement
    benefit plans assets, which are invested primarily in separate
    accounts.

The underlying assets of the separate accounts are principally
    comprised of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments,
    fixed maturity and equity securities, mutual funds, real estate,
    private equity investments and hedge funds investments.

F-149

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The fair values of the Subsidiaries  pension plan assets at
    December 31, 2009 by asset class were as follows:

(1)  

Investment portfolio includes U.S. equity securities with
    relatively large market capitalization that exhibit signs of
    above average sales and earnings growth. 

F-150

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

(2)  

Investment portfolio includes U.S. equity securities with
    relatively large market capitalization and low price to book and
    price to earnings ratios. 

(3)  

Investment portfolio includes U.S. equity securities with
    relatively large market capitalization and no particular bias
    toward value or growth. 

(4)  

Investment portfolio includes U.S. equity securities with
    relatively small market capitalization that exhibit signs of
    above average sales and earnings growth. 

(5)  

Investment portfolio includes U.S. equity securities with
    relatively small market capitalization and no particular bias
    toward value or growth. 

(6)  

Investment portfolio includes International equity securities
    with relatively large market capitalization and no particular
    bias toward value or growth. 

(7)  

Investment portfolio includes longer-maturity investment-grade
    fixed income securities invested across diverse asset sectors
    such as government, corporate and structured finance. 

(8)  

Investment portfolio includes investment-grade fixed income
    securities with varying maturities invested across diverse asset
    sectors such as government, corporate and structured finance. 

(9)  

Investment portfolio includes multiple hedge funds with
    strategies such as fixed income arbitrage, long-short equity,
    tactical trading and global macro. 

(10)  

Investment portfolio includes domestic real estate equity
    investments in both privately held commercial real estate and
    publicly listed real estate investment trust securities. 

(11)  

Investment portfolio includes domestic and foreign private
    investments in companies not publicly traded on a stock exchange. 

The fair values of the Subsidiaries  pension plan assets at
    December 31, 2008 was $6,570 million.

The pension plan assets are categorized into the three-level
    fair value hierarchy, as defined in Note 1, based upon the
    priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique.
    The following summarizes the types of assets included within the
    three-level fair value hierarchy presented in the table above.

Level 1  

This category includes investments in liquid securities, such as
    cash, short-term money market and bank time deposits, expected
    to mature within a year.

Level 2  

This category includes certain separate accounts that are
    primarily invested in liquid and readily marketable securities.
    The estimated fair value of such separate account is based upon
    reported NAV provided by fund managers and this value represents
    the amount at which transfers in and out of the respective
    separate account are effected. These separate accounts provide
    reasonable levels of price transparency and can be corroborated
    through observable market data.

Certain separate accounts are invested in investment
    partnerships designated as hedge funds. The values for these
    separate accounts is determined monthly based on the NAV of the
    underlying hedge fund investment. Additionally, such hedge funds
    generally contain lock out or other waiting period provisions
    for redemption requests to be filled. While the reporting and
    redemption restrictions may limit the frequency of trading
    activity in separate accounts invested in hedge funds, the
    reported NAV, and thus the referenced value of the separate
    account, provides a reasonable level of price transparency that
    can be corroborated through observable market data. Directly
    held investments are primarily invested in U.S. and foreign
    government and corporate securities.

Level 3  

This category includes separate accounts that are invested in
    real estate and private equity investments provide little or no
    price transparency due to the infrequency with which the
    underlying assets trade and generally require additional time to
    liquidate in an orderly manner. Accordingly, the values for
    separate accounts invested in these alternative asset classes
    are based on inputs that cannot be readily derived from or
    corroborated by observable market data.

F-151

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

A rollforward of all assets measured at estimated fair value on
    a recurring basis using significant unobservable
    (Level 3) inputs for the year ended December 31,
    2009 is as follows:

Fair Value Measurement Using Significant 

Unobservable Outputs (Level 3) 

Private Equity Funds 

Real Estate   

(In millions) 

Balance January 1,

$

430

$

379

Actual return on plan assets:

Assets held at reporting date

(55

)

(137

)

Assets sold during the period

(33

)

Purchases, sales and settlements

31

Transfers in and out of Level 3

Balance at December 31,

$

373

$

242

The Subsidiaries provide employees with benefits under various
    ERISA benefit plans. These include qualified pension plans,
    postretirement medical plans and certain retiree life insurance
    coverage. The assets of MetLife s qualified pension plans
    are held in insurance group annuity contracts, and the vast
    majority of the assets of the postretirement medical plan and
    backing the retiree life coverage are held in insurance
    contracts. All of these contracts are issued by Company
    insurance affiliates, and the assets under the contracts are
    held in insurance separate accounts that have been established
    by the Company. The insurance contract provider engages
    investment management firms ( Managers ) to serve as
     sub-advisors 
    for the separate accounts based on the specific investment needs
    and requests identified by the plan fiduciary. These Managers
    have portfolio management discretion over the purchasing and
    selling of securities and other investment assets pursuant to
    the respective investment management agreements and guidelines
    established for each insurance separate account. The assets of
    the qualified pension plans and postretirement medical plans
    (the  Invested Plans ) are well diversified across
    multiple asset categories and across a number of different
    Managers, with the intent of minimizing risk concentrations
    within any given asset category or with any given Manager.

The Invested Plans, other than those held in participant
    directed investment accounts, are managed in accordance with
    investment policies consistent with the longer-term nature of
    related benefit obligations and within prudent risk parameters.
    Specifically, investment policies are oriented toward
    (i) maximizing the Invested Plan s funded status;
    (ii) minimizing the volatility of the Invested Plan s
    funded status; (iii) generating asset returns that exceed
    liability increases; and (iv) targeting rates of return in
    excess of a custom benchmark and industry standards over
    appropriate reference time periods. These goals are expected to
    be met through identifying appropriate and diversified asset
    classes and allocations, ensuring adequate liquidity to pay
    benefits and expenses when due and controlling the costs of
    administering and managing the Invested Plan s investments.
    Independent investment consultants are periodically used to
    evaluate the investment risk of Invested Plan s assets
    relative to liabilities, analyze the economic and portfolio
    impact of various asset allocations and management strategies
    and to recommend asset allocations.

Certain international subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit plans
    that cover employees and sales representatives who meet
    specified eligibility requirements. Pension benefits are
    provided utilizing either a traditional formula or cash balance
    formula, similar to the U.S. plans discussed above. The
    investment objectives are also similar, subject to local
    regulations. Generally, these international pension plans invest
    directly in high quality equity and fixed maturity securities.

Derivative contracts may be used to reduce investment risk, to
    manage duration and to replicate the risk/return profile of an
    asset or asset class. Derivatives may not be used to leverage a
    portfolio in any manner, such as to magnify exposure to an
    asset, asset class, interest rates or any other financial
    variable. Derivatives are also

F-152

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

prohibited for use in creating exposures to securities,
    currencies, indices or any other financial variable that are
    otherwise restricted.

The following tables summarize the actual weighted average asset
    allocation by major asset class for the Invested Plans.

Expected
    Future Contributions and Benefit Payments   

It is the Subsidiaries  practice to make contributions to
    the qualified pension plan to comply with minimum funding
    requirements of ERISA. In accordance with such practice, no
    contributions were required for the years ended
    December 31, 2009 or 2008. No contributions will be
    required for 2010. The Subsidiaries made no discretionary
    contributions to the qualified pension plan during the year
    ended December 31, 2009. The Subsidiaries made
    discretionary contributions of $300 million to the
    qualified pension plan during the year ended December 31,
    2008. The Subsidiaries expect to make additional discretionary
    contributions of $150 million in 2010.

Benefit payments due under the non-qualified pension plans are
    funded from the Subsidiaries  general assets as they become
    due under the provision of the plans. These payments totaled
    $57 million and $43 million for the

F-153

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These
    payments are expected to be at approximately the same level in
    2010.

Postretirement benefits, other than those provided under
    qualified pension plans, are either: (i) not vested under
    law; (ii) a non-funded obligation of the Subsidiaries; or
    (iii) both. Current regulations do not require funding for
    these benefits. The Subsidiaries use their general assets, net
    of participant s contributions, to pay postretirement
    medical claims as they come due in lieu of utilizing any plan
    assets. Total payments equaled $158 million and
    $149 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

The Subsidiaries expect to make contributions of
    $119 million, net of participant s contributions,
    towards benefit obligations (other than those under qualified
    pension plans) in 2010. As noted previously, the Subsidiaries
    expect to receive subsidies under the Prescription Drug Act to
    partially offset payment of such benefits.

Gross benefit payments for the next ten years, which reflect
    expected future service where appropriate, and gross subsidies
    to be received under the Prescription Drug Act are expected to
    be as follows:

Additional
    Information   

As previously discussed, the assets of the pension and other
    postretirement benefit plans are held in group annuity and life
    insurance contracts issued by the Subsidiaries. Total revenue
    from these contracts recognized in the consolidated statements
    of operations was $45 million, $42 million and
    $47 million for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, and includes policy charges, net
    investment income from investments backing the contracts and
    administrative fees. Total investment income (loss), including
    realized and unrealized gains and losses, credited to the
    account balances were $725 million, ($1,090) million
    and $603 million for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The terms of these contracts
    are consistent in all material respects with those the
    Subsidiaries offer to unaffiliated parties that are similarly
    situated.

Savings
    and Investment Plans   

The Subsidiaries sponsor savings and investment plans for
    substantially all Company employees under which a portion of
    employee contributions are matched. The Subsidiaries contributed
    $93 million, $70 million and $76 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Preferred
    Stock   

In September 1999, the Holding Company adopted a stockholder
    rights plan (the  rights plan ). Under the rights
    plan, each outstanding share of common stock issued between
    April 4, 2000 and the distribution date (as defined in the
    rights plan) is coupled with a stockholder right. Each right
    will entitle the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share
    of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Each one
    one-hundredth of a share of Series A

F-154

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Junior Participating Preferred Stock will have economic and
    voting terms equivalent to one share of common stock. Until it
    is exercised, the right itself will not entitle the holder
    thereof to any rights as a stockholder, including the right to
    receive dividends or to vote at stockholder meetings.
    Stockholder rights are not exercisable until the distribution
    date. The rights plan will expire at the close of business on
    April 4, 2010, unless the rights are earlier redeemed or
    exchanged by the Holding Company. The Board of Directors of the
    Holding Company does not currently intend to renew it.

The Holding Company has outstanding 24 million shares of
    Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (the
     Series A preferred shares ) with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of
    $600 million.

The Holding Company has outstanding 60 million shares of
    6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B (the
     Series B preferred shares ), with a
    $0.01 par value per share, and a liquidation preference of
    $25 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $1.5 billion.

The Series A and Series B preferred shares (the
     Preferred Shares ) rank senior to the common stock
    with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Dividends on
    the Preferred Shares are not cumulative. Holders of the
    Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive dividend payments
    only when, as and if declared by the Holding Company s
    Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the board.
    If dividends are declared on the Series A preferred shares,
    they will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an annual rate of
    the greater of: (i) 1.00% above
     3-month 
    LIBOR on the related LIBOR determination date; or
    (ii) 4.00%. Any dividends declared on the Series B
    preferred shares will be payable quarterly, in arrears, at an
    annual fixed rate of 6.50%. Accordingly, in the event that
    dividends are not declared on the Preferred Shares for payment
    on any dividend payment date, then those dividends will cease to
    accrue and be payable. If a dividend is not declared before the
    dividend payment date, the Holding Company has no obligation to
    pay dividends accrued for that dividend period whether or not
    dividends are declared and paid in future periods. No dividends
    may, however, be paid or declared on the Holding Company s
    common stock   or any other securities ranking junior
    to the Preferred Shares   unless the full dividends
    for the latest completed dividend period on all Preferred
    Shares, and any parity stock, have been declared and paid or
    provided for.

The Holding Company is prohibited from declaring dividends on
    the Preferred Shares if it fails to meet specified capital
    adequacy, net income and shareholders  equity levels. In
    addition, under Federal Reserve Bank of New York Board policy,
    the Holding Company may not be able to pay dividends if it does
    not earn sufficient operating income.

The Preferred Shares do not have voting rights except in certain
    circumstances where the dividends have not been paid for an
    equivalent of six or more dividend payment periods whether or
    not those periods are consecutive. Under such circumstances, the
    holders of the Preferred Shares have certain voting rights with
    respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Holding
    Company.

The Preferred Shares are not subject to any mandatory
    redemption, sinking fund, retirement fund, purchase fund or
    similar provisions. The Preferred Shares are redeemable, but not
    prior to September 15, 2010. On and after that date,
    subject to regulatory approval, the Preferred Shares will be
    redeemable at the Holding Company s option in whole or in
    part, at a redemption price of $25 per Preferred Share, plus
    declared and unpaid dividends.

In December 2008, the Holding Company entered into an RCC
    related to the Preferred Shares. As a part of the RCC, the
    Holding Company agreed that it will not repay, redeem or
    purchase the Preferred Shares on or before December 31,
    2018, unless such repayment, redemption or purchase is made from
    the proceeds of the issuance of certain capital securities. The
    RCC is for the benefit of holders of one or more series of its
    indebtedness as designated from time to time by the Holding
    Company. The RCC will terminate upon the occurrence of certain
    events, including the date on which there are no series of
    outstanding eligible debt securities.

F-155

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

In connection with the offering of the Preferred Shares, the
    Holding Company incurred $57 million of issuance costs
    which have been recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in
    capital.

Information on the declaration, record and payment dates, as
    well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    Preferred Shares is as follows:

See Note 24 for further information.

Common
    Stock   

Issuances  

In February 2009 the Holding Company delivered
    24,343,154 shares of newly issued common stock for
    $1,035 million, and in August 2008 the Holding Company
    delivered 20,244,549 shares of its common stock from
    treasury stock also for $1,035 million. Each issuance was
    made in connection with the initial settlement of the stock
    purchase contracts issued as part of the common equity units
    sold in June 2005, as described in Note 13.

In October 2008 the Holding Company issued
    86,250,000 shares of its common stock at a price of
    $26.50 per share for gross proceeds of
    $2,286 million. Of the shares issued,
    75,000,000 shares, with a value of $4,040 million were
    issued from treasury stock for consideration of
    $1,988 million. In connection with the offering of common
    stock, the Holding Company incurred $60 million of issuance
    costs which have been recorded as a reduction of additional
    paid-in capital.

During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    861,586 shares, 97,515,737 shares and
    3,864,894 shares of common stock were issued from treasury
    stock for $46 million, $5,221 million and
    $172 million, respectively.

F-156

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Repurchases  

The table below presents the common stock repurchase programs
    authorized by the Holding Company s Board of Directors and
    the aggregate amount and number of shares of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock purchased pursuant to these
    authorizations:

Under these authorizations, the Holding Company may purchase its
    common stock from the MetLife Policyholder Trust, in the open
    market (including pursuant to the terms of a pre-set trading
    plan meeting the requirements of
     Rule 10b5-1 
    under the Exchange Act) and in privately negotiated
    transactions. Future common stock repurchases will be dependent
    upon several factors, including the Company s capital
    position, its financial strength and credit ratings, general
    market conditions and the price of MetLife, Inc. s common
    stock. The Holding Company does not intend to make any purchases
    under the common stock repurchase program in 2010.

Other  

In September 2008, in connection with the split-off of RGA as
    described in Note 2, the Holding Company received from
    MetLife, Inc. stockholders 23,093,689 shares of MetLife,
    Inc. s common stock with a fair market value of
    $1,318 million and, in exchange, delivered
    29,243,539 shares of RGA Class B common stock with a
    net book value of $1,716 million resulting in a loss on
    disposition, including transaction costs, of $458 million.

Dividends  

The table below presents declaration, record and payment dates,
    as well as per share and aggregate dividend amounts, for the
    common stock:

F-157

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Stock-Based
    Compensation Plans   

Description
    of Plans  

The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the
     Stock Incentive Plan ), authorized the granting of
    awards to employees and agents in the form of options to buy
    shares of the Holding Company s common stock ( Stock
    Options ) that either qualify as incentive Stock Options
    under Section 422A of the Code or are
     non-qualified. 
    The MetLife, Inc. 2000 Directors Stock Plan, as amended
    (the  2000 Directors Stock Plan ), authorized the
    granting of awards in the form of the Holding Company s
    common stock, non-qualified Stock Options, or a combination of
    the foregoing to non-management Directors of the Holding
    Company. Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive
    Compensation Plan, as amended (the  2005 Stock Plan ),
    awards granted to employees and agents may be in the form of
    Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or
    Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share
    Units, Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards (each as defined
    in the 2005 Stock Plan). Under the MetLife, Inc. 2005
    Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may
    be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan) to non-management Directors of
    the Holding Company. The Stock Incentive Plan,
    2000 Directors Stock Plan, 2005 Stock Plan and the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan are hereinafter collectively
    referred to as the  Incentive Plans. 

The aggregate number of shares reserved for issuance under the
    2005 Stock Plan is 68,000,000, plus those shares available but
    not utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan and those shares
    utilized under the Stock Incentive Plan that are recovered due
    to forfeiture of Stock Options. Additional shares carried
    forward from the Stock Incentive Plan and available for issuance
    under the 2005 Stock Plan were 13,018,939 at December 31,
    2009. There were no shares carried forward from the
    2000 Directors Stock Plan. Each share issued under the 2005
    Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock
    Appreciation Right reduces the number of shares remaining for
    issuance under that plan by one, and each share issued under the
    2005 Stock Plan in connection with awards other than Stock
    Options or Stock Appreciation Rights reduces the number of
    shares remaining for issuance under that plan by
    1.179 shares. The number of shares reserved for issuance
    under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan are 2,000,000. At
    December 31, 2009, the aggregate number of shares remaining
    available for issuance pursuant to the 2005 Stock Plan and the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan were 47,903,044 and 1,838,594,
    respectively.

Stock Option exercises and other stock-based awards to employees
    settled in shares are satisfied through the issuance of shares
    held in treasury by the Company. Under the current authorized
    share repurchase program, as described previously, sufficient
    treasury shares exist to satisfy foreseeable obligations under
    the Incentive Plans.

Compensation expense related to awards under the Incentive Plans
    is recognized based on the number of awards expected to vest,
    which represents the awards granted less expected forfeitures
    over the life of the award, as estimated at the date of grant.
    Unless a material deviation from the assumed rate is observed
    during the term in which the awards are expensed, any adjustment
    necessary to reflect differences in actual experience is
    recognized in the period the award becomes payable or
    exercisable. Compensation expense of $69 million,
    $123 million and $146 million, and income tax benefits
    of $24 million, $43 million and $51 million,
    related to the Incentive Plans was recognized for the years
    ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
    Compensation expense is principally related to the issuance of
    Stock Options, Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Units.
    The majority of the awards granted by the Holding Company are
    made in the first quarter of each year.

Stock
    Options  

All Stock Options granted had an exercise price equal to the
    closing price of the Holding Company s common stock as
    reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant,
    and have a maximum term of ten years. Certain Stock Options
    granted under the Stock Incentive Plan and the 2005 Stock Plan
    have or will become exercisable over a three year period
    commencing with the date of grant, while other Stock Options
    have or will

F-158

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

become exercisable three years after the date of grant. Stock
    Options issued under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan were
    exercisable immediately. The date at which a Stock Option issued
    under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan becomes exercisable
    would be determined at the time such Stock Option is granted.

A summary of the activity related to Stock Options for the year
    ended December 31, 2009 is presented below. The aggregate
    intrinsic value was computed using the closing share price on
    December 31, 2009 of $35.35 and December 31, 2008 of
    $34.86, as applicable.

The fair value of Stock Options is estimated on the date of
    grant using a binomial lattice model. Significant assumptions
    used in the Company s binomial lattice model, which are
    further described below, include: expected volatility of the
    price of the Holding Company s common stock; risk-free rate
    of return; expected dividend yield on the Holding Company s
    common stock; exercise multiple; and the post-vesting
    termination rate.

Expected volatility is based upon an analysis of historical
    prices of the Holding Company s common stock and call
    options on that common stock traded on the open market. The
    Company uses a weighted-average of the implied volatility for
    publicly-traded call options with the longest remaining maturity
    nearest to the money as of each valuation date and the
    historical volatility, calculated using monthly closing prices
    of the Holding Company s common stock. The Company chose a
    monthly measurement interval for historical volatility as it
    believes this better depicts the nature of employee option
    exercise decisions being based on longer-term trends in the
    price of the underlying shares rather than on daily price
    movements.

The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates
    different risk-free rates based on the imputed forward rates for
    U.S. Treasury Strips for each year over the contractual
    term of the option. The table below presents the full range of
    rates that were used for options granted during the respective
    periods.

Dividend yield is determined based on historical dividend
    distributions compared to the price of the underlying common
    stock as of the valuation date and held constant over the life
    of the Stock Option.

The binomial lattice model used by the Company incorporates the
    contractual term of the Stock Options and then factors in
    expected exercise behavior and a post-vesting termination rate,
    or the rate at which vested options are exercised or expire
    prematurely due to termination of employment, to derive an
    expected life. Exercise behavior in the binomial lattice model
    used by the Company is expressed using an exercise multiple,
    which reflects the ratio of exercise price to the strike price
    of Stock Options granted at which holders of the Stock Options
    are expected to exercise. The exercise multiple is derived from
    actual historical exercise activity. The post-vesting
    termination rate is determined from actual historical exercise
    experience and expiration activity under the Incentive Plans.

F-159

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following weighted average assumptions, with the exception
    of risk-free rate, which is expressed as a range, were used to
    determine the fair value of Stock Options issued during the:

Compensation expense related to Stock Option awards expected to
    vest and granted prior to January 1, 2006 is recognized
    ratably over the requisite service period, which equals the
    vesting term. Compensation expense related to Stock Option
    awards expected to vest and granted on or after January 1,
    2006 is recognized ratably over the requisite service period or
    the period to retirement eligibility, if shorter. Compensation
    expense of $55 million, $51 million and
    $55 million related to Stock Options was recognized for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

At December 31, 2009, there was $40 million of total
    unrecognized compensation costs related to Stock Options. It is
    expected that these costs will be recognized over a weighted
    average period of 1.67 years.

The following is a summary of Stock Option exercise activity for
    the:

Performance
    Shares  

Beginning in 2005, certain members of management were awarded
    Performance Shares under (and as defined in) the 2005 Stock
    Plan. Participants are awarded an initial target number of
    Performance Shares with the final number of Performance Shares
    payable being determined by the product of the initial target
    multiplied by a performance factor of 0.0 to 2.0. The
    performance factor applied is based on measurements of the
    Holding Company s performance, including with respect to:
    (i) the change in annual net operating earnings per share,
    as defined; and (ii) the proportionate total shareholder
    return, as defined, each with reference to the applicable
    three-year performance period relative to other companies in the
    S P Insurance Index with reference to the same three-year
    period. Beginning with awards made in 2009, in order for
    Performance Shares to be payable, the Holding Company must
    generate positive net income for either the third year of the
    performance period or for the performance period as a whole.
    Also beginning with awards made in 2009, if the Holding
    Company s Total Shareholder Return with reference to the
    applicable three-year performance period is zero percent or
    less, the performance factor will be multiplied by 75%.
    Performance Share awards will normally vest in their entirety at
    the end of the three-year performance period (subject to certain
    contingencies) and will primarily be payable in shares of the
    Holding Company s common stock.

F-160

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following is a summary of Performance Share activity for the
    year ended December 31, 2009:

Performance Share amounts above represent aggregate initial
    target awards and do not reflect potential increases or
    decreases resulting from the final performance factor to be
    determined at the end of the respective performance period. At
    December 31, 2009, the three year performance period for
    the 2007 Performance Share grants was completed. Included in the
    immediately preceding table are 801,750 outstanding Performance
    Shares to which the final performance factor will be applied.
    The calculation of the performance factor is expected to be
    finalized during the second quarter of 2010 after all data
    necessary to perform the calculation is publicly available.

Performance Share awards are accounted for as equity awards but
    are not credited with dividend-equivalents for actual dividends
    paid on the Holding Company s common stock during the
    performance period. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of
    Performance Shares is based upon the closing price of the
    Holding Company s common stock on the date of grant,
    reduced by the present value of estimated dividends to be paid
    on that stock during the performance period.

Compensation expense related to initial Performance Shares
    granted prior to January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is
    recognized ratably during the performance period. Compensation
    expense related to initial Performance Shares granted on or
    after January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is recognized
    ratably over the performance period or the period to retirement
    eligibility, if shorter. Performance Shares expected to vest and
    the related compensation expenses may be further adjusted by the
    performance factor most likely to be achieved, as estimated by
    management, at the end of the performance period. Compensation
    expense of $11 million, $70 million and
    $90 million, related to Performance Shares was recognized
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively.

At December 31, 2009, there was $29 million of total
    unrecognized compensation costs related to Performance Share
    awards. It is expected that these costs will be recognized over
    a weighted average period of 1.52 years.

Restricted
    Stock Units  

Beginning in 2005, certain members of management were awarded
    Restricted Stock Units under (and as defined in) the 2005 Stock
    Plan. Restricted Stock Unit awards will normally vest on the
    third or later anniversary of the date of the award (subject to
    certain contingencies) and each unit will be primarily payable
    entirely in shares of the Holding Company s common stock.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Holding
    Company granted 295,000 Restricted Stock Units for which the
    total fair value on the date of grant was $6 million. The
    number of Restricted Stock Units outstanding at
    December 31, 2009 was 393,362 with a weighted average fair
    value of $28.05 per unit.

F-161

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

The following is a summary of Restricted Stock Unit activity for
    the year ended December 31, 2009:

Compensation expense related to Restricted Stock Units granted
    on or after January 1, 2006 and expected to vest is
    recognized ratably over a three year period or the period to
    retirement eligibility, if shorter. Compensation expense of
    $3 million, $2 million and $1 million related to
    Restricted Stock Units was recognized for the year ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 respectively.

At December 31, 2009, there was $5 million of total
    unrecognized compensation costs related to Restricted Stock
    Units. It is expected that these costs will be recognized over a
    weighted average period of 1.83 years.

Long-Term
    Performance Compensation Plan  

Prior to January 1, 2005, the Holding Company granted
    stock-based compensation awards to certain members of management
    under the Long-Term Performance Compensation Plan
    ( LTPCP ). The final LTPCP performance period
    concluded during 2007. The awards for the final LTPCP
    performance period, in the amount of 618,375 shares of the
    Holding Company s common stock and $16 million in
    cash, were paid during 2007. No significant compensation expense
    related to LTPCP was recognized during the year ended
    December 31, 2007.

Statutory
    Equity and Income   

Each insurance company s state of domicile imposes minimum
    risk-based capital ( RBC ) requirements that were
    developed by the NAIC. The formulas for determining the amount
    of RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to
    financial balances or various levels of activity based on the
    perceived degree of risk. Regulatory compliance is determined by
    a ratio of total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to
    authorized control level RBC, as defined by the NAIC.
    Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified
    within certain levels, each of which requires specified
    corrective action. Each of the Holding Company s
    U.S. insurance subsidiaries exceeded the minimum RBC
    requirements for all periods presented herein.

The NAIC has adopted the Codification of Statutory Accounting
    Principles ( Statutory Codification ). Statutory
    Codification is intended to standardize regulatory accounting
    and reporting to state insurance departments. However, statutory
    accounting principles continue to be established by individual
    state laws and permitted practices. The New York Insurance
    Department has adopted Statutory Codification with certain
    modifications for the preparation of statutory financial
    statements of insurance companies domiciled in New York.
    Modifications by the various state insurance departments may
    impact the effect of Statutory Codification on the statutory
    capital and surplus of the Holding Company s insurance
    subsidiaries.

Statutory accounting principles differ from GAAP primarily by
    charging policy acquisition costs to expense as incurred,
    establishing future policy benefit liabilities using different
    actuarial assumptions, reporting surplus notes as surplus
    instead of debt and valuing securities on a different basis.

In addition, certain assets are not admitted under statutory
    accounting principles and are charged directly to surplus. The
    most significant assets not admitted by the Company are net
    deferred income tax assets resulting from

F-162

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

temporary differences between statutory accounting principles
    basis and tax basis not expected to reverse and become
    recoverable within three years. Further, statutory accounting
    principles do not give recognition to purchase accounting
    adjustments.

Statutory net income (loss) of Metropolitan Life Insurance
    Company, a New York domiciled insurer, was $1,221 million,
    ($338) million and $2,123 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Statutory
    capital and surplus, as filed with the Department, was
    $12.6 billion and $11.6 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

Statutory net income of MetLife Insurance Company of
    Connecticut, a Connecticut domiciled insurer, was
    $81 million, $242 million and $1,101 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Connecticut Insurance Department, was $4.9 billion and
    $5.5 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Statutory net income of MPC, a Rhode Island domiciled insurer,
    was $266 million, $308 million and $400 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Insurance Department of Rhode Island, was $1.8 billion at
    both December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Statutory net income of Metropolitan Tower and Life Insurance
    Company ( MTL ), a Delaware domiciled insurer, was
    $57 million, $212 million and $103 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Statutory capital and surplus, as filed with the
    Delaware Insurance Department was $867 million and
    $885 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Dividend
    Restrictions   

The table below sets forth the dividends permitted to be paid by
    the respective insurance subsidiary without insurance regulatory
    approval and the respective dividends paid:

(1)  

Reflects dividend amounts that may be paid during 2010 without
    prior regulatory approval. However, if paid before a specified
    date during 2010, some or all of such dividends may require
    regulatory approval. 

(2)  

All amounts paid, including those requiring regulatory approval. 

(3)  

Reflects dividend amounts that could have been paid during the
    relevant year without prior regulatory approval. 

(4)  

As described in Note 2, consists of shares of RGA stock
    distributed by MLIC to the Holding Company as an in-kind
    dividend of $1,318 million. 

(5)  

Includes shares of an affiliate distributed to the Holding
    Company as an in-kind dividend in the amount of
    $164 million. 

In addition to the amounts presented in the table above, for the
    years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, cash dividends in
    the amount of $215 million and $235 million,
    respectively, were paid to the Holding Company.

F-163

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Under New York State Insurance Law, MLIC is permitted, without
    prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to the Holding Company as long as the aggregate amount
    of all such dividends in any calendar year does not exceed the
    lesser of: (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of
    the end of the immediately preceding calendar year; or
    (ii) its statutory net gain from operations for the
    immediately preceding calendar year (excluding realized capital
    gains). MLIC will be permitted to pay a dividend to the Holding
    Company in excess of the lesser of such two amounts only if it
    files notice of its intention to declare such a dividend and the
    amount thereof with the Superintendent and the Superintendent
    does not disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its
    filing. Under New York State Insurance Law, the Superintendent
    has broad discretion in determining whether the financial
    condition of a stock life insurance company would support the
    payment of such dividends to its shareholders. The New York
    State Department of Insurance (the  Department ) has
    established informal guidelines for such determinations. The
    guidelines, among other things, focus on the insurer s
    overall financial condition and profitability under statutory
    accounting practices.

Under Connecticut State Insurance Law, MICC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay stockholder
    dividends to its stockholders as long as the amount of such
    dividends, when aggregated with all other dividends in the
    preceding 12 months, does not exceed the greater of:
    (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of
    the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its
    statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding
    calendar year. MICC will be permitted to pay a dividend in
    excess of the greater of such two amounts only if it files
    notice of its declaration of such a dividend and the amount
    thereof with the Connecticut Commissioner of Insurance (the
     Connecticut Commissioner ) and the Connecticut
    Commissioner does not disapprove the payment within 30 days
    after notice. In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned
    surplus (unassigned funds, reduced by 25% of unrealized
    appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized
    profits on investments) as of the last filed annual statutory
    statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under
    Connecticut State Insurance Law, the Connecticut Commissioner
    has broad discretion in determining whether the financial
    condition of a stock life insurance company would support the
    payment of such dividends to its shareholders.

Under Delaware State Insurance Law, MTL is permitted, without
    prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a stockholder
    dividend to the Holding Company as long as the amount of the
    dividend when aggregated with all other dividends in the
    preceding 12 months does not exceed the greater of:
    (i) 10% of its surplus to policyholders as of the end of
    the immediately preceding calendar year; or (ii) its
    statutory net gain from operations for the immediately preceding
    calendar year (excluding realized capital gains). MTL will be
    permitted to pay a dividend to the Holding Company in excess of
    the greater of such two amounts only if it files notice of the
    declaration of such a dividend and the amount thereof with the
    Delaware Commissioner of Insurance (the  Delaware
    Commissioner ) and the Delaware Commissioner does not
    disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing.
    In addition, any dividend that exceeds earned surplus (defined
    as unassigned funds) as of the last filed annual statutory
    statement requires insurance regulatory approval. Under Delaware
    State Insurance Law, the Delaware Commissioner has broad
    discretion in determining whether the financial condition of a
    stock life insurance company would support the payment of such
    dividends to its shareholders.

Under Rhode Island State Insurance Law, MPC is permitted,
    without prior insurance regulatory clearance, to pay a
    stockholder dividend to the Holding Company as long as the
    aggregate amount of all such dividends in any twelve-month
    period does not exceed the lesser of: (i) 10% of its
    surplus to policyholders as of the end of the immediately
    preceding calendar year; or (ii) net income, not including
    realized capital gains, for the immediately preceding calendar
    year, which may include carry forward net income from the second
    and third preceding calendar years excluding realized capital
    gains and less dividends paid in the second and immediately
    preceding calendar years. MPC will be permitted to pay a
    dividend to the Holding Company in excess of the lesser of such
    two amounts only if it files notice of its intention to declare
    such a dividend and the amount thereof with the Rhode Island
    Commissioner of Insurance (the  Rhode Island
    Commissioner ) and the Rhode Island Commissioner does not
    disapprove the distribution within 30 days of its filing.
    Under Rhode Island State Insurance Code, the Rhode Island
    Commissioner has broad discretion in determining whether the
    financial condition of a stock property and casualty

F-164

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

insurance company would support the payment of such dividends to
    its shareholders. MPC may not pay any dividends in 2010 without
    prior regulatory approval from the Rhode Island Commissioner.

Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)   

The following table sets forth the reclassification adjustments
    required for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
    2007 in other comprehensive income (loss) that are included as
    part of net income for the current year that have been reported
    as a part of other comprehensive income (loss) in the current or
    prior year:

F-165

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Information on other expenses is as follows:

Interest
    and Debt Issue Costs  

See Notes 11, 12, 13 and 14 for attribution of interest
    expense by debt issuance. Includes interest expense on tax
    audits of $39 million, $35 million and
    $90 million, respectively.

Amortization
    and Capitalization of DAC and VOBA  

See Note 6 for deferred acquisition costs by segment and a
    rollforward of deferred acquisition costs including impacts of
    amortization and capitalization. See also Note 10 for a
    description of the DAC amortization impact associated with the
    closed block.

Lease
    Impairments  

See Note 16 for description of lease impairments included
    within other expenses.

Restructuring
    Charges  

In September 2008, the Company began an enterprise-wide cost
    reduction and revenue enhancement initiative which is expected
    to be fully implemented by December 31, 2010. This
    initiative is focused on reducing complexity, leveraging scale,
    increasing productivity and improving the effectiveness of the
    Company s operations, as well as providing a foundation for
    future growth. These restructuring costs were included in other
    expenses. As the expenses relate to an enterprise-wide
    initiative, they were incurred within Banking,

F-166

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Corporate   Other. Estimated restructuring costs may
    change as management continues to execute its restructuring
    plans. Restructuring charges associated with this
    enterprise-wide initiative are as follows:

For both years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the change
    in severance charge estimates was $8 million due to lower
    anticipated costs for lower variable incentive compensation,
    COBRA benefits, employee outplacement services and for employees
    whose severance status changed.

In 2009, the Company also recognized additional lease charges of
    $28 million and made cash payments of $2 million
    associated with the consolidation of office space.

Management anticipates further restructuring charges including
    severance, lease and asset impairments will be incurred during
    the year ending December 31, 2010. However, such
    restructuring plans are not sufficiently developed to enable the
    Company to make an estimate of such restructuring charges at
    December 31, 2009.

In addition to the restructuring charges incurred in connection
    with the aforementioned enterprise-wide initiative, the Company
    also incurred severance costs in connection with the Argentine
    government s nationalization of its private pension
    business. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the
    Company recognized a restructuring charge of $15 million
    within the International segment and made payments of
    $12 million resulting in a restructuring liability of
    $3 million at December 31, 2008. During the year ended
    December 31, 2009, the Company made payments of
    $3 million resulting in no restructuring liability at
    December 31, 2009.

F-167

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

20.    

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The following table presents the weighted average shares used in
    calculating basic earnings per common share and those used in
    calculating diluted earnings per common share for each income
    category presented below:

(1)  

See Note 14 for a description of the Company s common
    equity units. 

(2)  

For the year ended December 31, 2009, 4,213,700 shares
    related to the exercise or issuance of stock-based awards have
    been excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per
    common share as these shares are anti-dilutive. 

F-168

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

21.    

Quarterly
    Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

The unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2009 and 2008
    are summarized in the table below:

(1)  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a
    cumulative
     out-of-period 
    adjustment in connection with the exclusion of certain
    derivative gains from the estimation of cumulative gross profits
    used in the determination of DAC amortization. The adjustment
    decreased DAC and increased DAC amortization by  

F-169

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

$124 million and decreased net income by $80 million
    in the fourth quarter of 2008. Had the amounts been reflected
    during the first, second and third quarters of 2008
      in the periods in which they arose   DAC
    amortization would have increased (decreased) by
    $100 million, ($61) million and $85 million,
    respectively, resulting in an increase (decrease) of net income
    by ($65) million, $40 million and ($55) million,
    respectively. Net income available to common shareholders per
    diluted common share would have been higher (lower) by ($0.09),
    $0.06, ($0.08) and $0.10 during the first, second, third and
    fourth quarters, respectively, of 2008 had the amounts been
    reflected in the periods in which they arose. Based upon an
    evaluation of all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors,
    management believes this correcting adjustment was not material
    to the Company s full year results for 2008 or the trend of
    earnings. 

22.    

Business
    Segment Information  

As further described in Note 1, during 2009 MetLife
    combined its former institutional and individual businesses, as
    well as its auto   home unit, into a single
    U.S. Business organization. U.S. Business consists of
    Insurance Products, Retirement Products, Corporate Benefit
    Funding and Auto   Home segments. The Company also has
    an International segment. In addition, the Company reports
    certain of its results of operations in Banking,
    Corporate   Other.

Insurance Products offers a broad range of protection products
    and services to individuals, corporations and other
    institutions, and is organized into three distinct businesses:
    Group Life, Individual Life and Non-Medical Health. Group Life
    insurance products and services include variable life, universal
    life and term life. Individual Life includes variable life,
    universal life, term life and whole life insurance products.
    Non-Medical Health includes short- and long-term disability,
    long-term care, and dental insurance, and other insurance
    products. Retirement Products offers asset accumulation and
    income products, including a wide variety of annuities.
    Corporate Benefit Funding offers pension risk solutions,
    structured settlements, stable value   investment
    products and other benefit funding products. Auto  
    Home provides personal lines property and casualty insurance,
    including private passenger automobile, homeowners and personal
    excess liability insurance.

International provides life insurance, accident and health
    insurance, annuities and retirement products to both individuals
    and groups.

Banking, Corporate   Other contains the excess capital
    not allocated to the business segments, the results of
    operations of MetLife Bank, various
     start-up 
    entities and run-off entities, as well as interest expense
    related to the majority of the Company s outstanding debt
    and expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and
    income tax audit issues. Banking, Corporate   Other
    also includes the elimination of intersegment amounts, which
    generally relate to intersegment loans, which bear interest
    rates commensurate with related borrowings. The operations of
    RGA are also reported in Banking, Corporate   Other as
    discontinued operations. See Note 23 for disclosures
    regarding discontinued operations, including real estate.

Operating earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss the
    Company uses to evaluate segment performance and allocate
    resources. Consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment
    reporting, it is the Company s measure of segment
    performance reported below. Operating earnings is not determined
    in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute
    for GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income
    tax. However, the Company believes the presentation of operating
    earnings herein as we measure it for management purposes
    enhances the understanding of segment performance by
    highlighting the results from operations and the underlying
    profitability drivers of the businesses.

Operating earnings is defined as operating revenues less
    operating expenses, net of income tax.

Operating revenues is defined as GAAP revenues (i) less net
    investment gains (losses), (ii) less amortization of
    unearned revenue related to net investment gains (losses),
    (iii) plus scheduled periodic settlement payments on
    derivative instruments that are hedges of investments but do not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment, (iv) plus income
    from discontinued real estate operations, and (v) plus, for
    operating joint ventures reported under the equity

F-170

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

method of accounting, the aforementioned adjustments and those
    identified in the definition of operating expenses, net of
    income tax, if applicable to these joint ventures.

Operating expenses is defined as GAAP expenses (i) less
    changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to
    asset value fluctuations, (ii) less costs related to
    business combinations (since January 1, 2009) and
    noncontrolling interests, (iii) less amortization of DAC
    and VOBA and changes in the policyholder dividend obligation
    related to net investment gains (losses), and (iv) plus
    scheduled periodic settlement payments on derivative instruments
    that are hedges of policyholder account balances but do not
    qualify for hedge accounting treatment.

Set forth in the tables below is certain financial information
    with respect to the Company s segments as well as Banking,
    Corporate   Other for the years ended
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and at December 31,
    2009 and 2008. The accounting policies of the segments are the
    same as those of the Company, except for the method of capital
    allocation and the accounting for gains (losses) from
    intercompany sales, which are eliminated in consolidation.
    Economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model,
    the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and
    to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. The economic
    capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the
    risks inherent in the Company s businesses. As a part of
    the economic capital process, a portion of net investment income
    is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated
    equity. The Company allocates certain non-recurring items, such
    as expenses associated with certain legal proceedings, to
    Banking, Corporate   Other.

F-171

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-172

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

F-173

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Net investment income and net investment gains (losses) are
    based upon the actual results of each segment s
    specifically identifiable asset portfolio adjusted for allocated
    equity. Other costs are allocated to each of the segments based
    upon: (i) a review of the nature of such costs;
    (ii) time studies analyzing the amount of employee
    compensation costs incurred by each segment; and (iii) cost
    estimates included in the Company s product pricing.

Revenues derived from any customer did not exceed 10% of
    consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31,
    2009, 2008 and 2007. Revenues from U.S. operations were
    $35.9 billion, $44.6 billion and $41.7 billion
    for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, which represented 87%, 87% and 88%, respectively,
    of consolidated revenues.

23.    

Discontinued
    Operations  

Real
    Estate   

The Company actively manages its real estate portfolio with the
    objective of maximizing earnings through selective acquisitions
    and dispositions. Income related to real estate classified as
     held-for-sale 
    or sold is presented in

F-174

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

discontinued operations. These assets are carried at the lower
    of depreciated cost or estimated fair value less expected
    disposition costs.

The following information presents the components of income from
    discontinued real estate operations:

The carrying value of real estate related to discontinued
    operations was $44 million and $51 million at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Operations   

Texas
    Life Insurance Company  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Holding Company entered
    into an agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, Cova, the
    parent company of Texas Life, to a
     third-party 
    and the sale occurred in March 2009. (See also

F-175

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Note 2.) The following tables present the amounts related
    to the operations of Cova that have been reflected as
    discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of
    operations and balance sheet:

F-176

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

December 31, 2008 

(In millions) 

Fixed maturity securities

$

514

Equity securities

1

Mortgage loans

41

Policy loans

35

Real estate and real estate joint ventures
     held-for-investment 

2

Total investments

593

Cash and cash equivalents

32

Accrued investment income

7

Premiums and other receivables

19

DAC and VOBA

232

Deferred income tax asset

61

Other assets

2

Total assets
     held-for-sale 

$

946

Future policy benefits

$

180

Policyholder account balances

356

Other policyholder funds

181

Policyholder dividends payable

4

Current income tax payable

1

Other liabilities

26

Total liabilities
     held-for-sale 

$

748

F-177

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Notes to
    the Consolidated Financial
    Statements   (Continued)  

Reinsurance
    Group of America, Incorporated  

As more fully described in Note 2, the Company completed a
    tax-free split-off of its majority-owned subsidiary, RGA in
    September 2008. The following table presents the amounts related
    to the operations of RGA that have been reflected as
    discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of
    operations:

The operations of RGA included direct policies and reinsurance
    agreements with MetLife and some of its subsidiaries. These
    agreements are generally terminable by either party upon
    90 days written notice with respect to future new business.
    Agreements related to existing business generally are not
    terminable, unless the underlying policies terminate or are
    recaptured. These direct policies and reinsurance agreements do
    not constitute significant continuing involvement by the Company
    with RGA. Included in continuing operations in the
    Company s consolidated statements of operations are amounts
    related to these transactions, including ceded amounts that
    reduced premiums and fees by $158 million and
    $251 million and ceded amounts that reduced policyholder
    benefits and claims by $136 million and $290 million
    for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, that have not been eliminated as these
    transactions have continued after the RGA disposition.

The Company evaluated the recognition and disclosure of
    subsequent events for its December 31, 2009 consolidated
    financial statements.

On February 18, 2010, the Holding Company s Board of
    Directors announced dividends of $0.2500000 per share, for a
    total of $6 million, on its Series A preferred shares,
    and $0.4062500 per share, for a total of $24 million, on
    its Series B preferred shares, subject to the final
    confirmation that it has met the financial tests specified in
    the Series A and Series B preferred shares, which the
    Company anticipates will be made on or about March 5, 2010,
    the earliest date permitted in accordance with the terms of the
    securities. Both dividends will be payable March 15, 2010
    to shareholders of record as of February 28, 2010.

F-178

Table of Contents   

Summary Of Investments Other Than Investments In Related Parties

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule I  

Consolidated
    Summary of Investments    
    Other Than Investments in Related Parties 
    December 31, 2009 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

The Company s trading securities portfolio is mainly
    comprised of fixed maturity and equity securities. Cost or
    amortized cost for fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans
     held-for-investment 
    represents original cost reduced by repayments, valuation
    allowances and impairments from
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in estimated fair value that are charged to earnings
    and adjusted for amortization of premiums or discounts; for
    equity securities, cost represents original cost reduced by
    impairments from
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in estimated fair value; for real estate, cost
    represents original cost reduced by impairments and adjusted for
    valuation allowances and depreciation; for real estate joint
    ventures and other limited partnership interests cost represents
    original cost reduced for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments or original cost adjusted for equity in earnings and
    distributions. 

F-179

Table of Contents   

Condensed Financial Information Of Parent Company Only Disclosure

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant 
    December 31, 2009 and 2008 
    (In millions, except share and per share data)  

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.

F-180

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.

F-181

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule II  

Condensed
    Financial Information of Registrant   (Continued) 
    For the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
    (In millions)  

See accompanying notes to the condensed financial information.

F-182

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of Registrant  

1.    

Basis of
    Presentation  

The condensed financial information of MetLife, Inc. (the
     Holding Company  or the  Registrant )
    should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
    Statements of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries and the notes
    thereto (the  Consolidated Financial Statements ).
    These condensed unconsolidated financial statements reflect the
    results of operations, financial position and cash flows for the
    Holding Company. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for
    using the equity method of accounting.

The condensed unconsolidated financial statements are prepared
    in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
    the United States of America ( GAAP ) except as stated
    previously which also requires management to make certain
    estimates and assumptions. The most important of these estimates
    and assumptions relate to the fair value measurements, the
    accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and
    the provision for potential losses that may arise from
    litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits, which may
    affect the amounts reported in the condensed unconsolidated
    financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
    could differ materially from these estimates.

2.    

Loans to
    Subsidiaries  

The Holding Company lends funds, as necessary, to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their capital
    requirements. Such loans are included in loans to subsidiaries
    and consisted of the following at:

On December 31, 2009, the $700 million surplus note
    issued to the Holding Company by Metropolitan Life Insurance
    Company ( MLIC ) was renewed and increased to
    $775 million, extending the maturity to December 31,
    2011 with an interest rate of
     6-month 
    LIBOR + 1.80%.

On December 28, 2009, MLIC issued a surplus note to the
    Holding Company for $300 million maturing in 2011 with an
    interest rate of
     6-month 
    LIBOR + 1.80%. This transaction was settled by the transfer of
    securities to MLIC.

In June 2008, MetLife Investors USA Insurance Company repaid the
    $400 million surplus note with an interest rate of 7.35% to
    the Holding Company.

In December 2007, MLIC repaid an $800 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of 5.00% to the Holding Company and then
    issued to the Holding Company a $700 million surplus note
    with an interest rate of
     3-month 
    LIBOR plus 1.15%.

Interest income earned on loans to subsidiaries of
    $50 million, $81 million and $105 million for the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively,
    is included within net investment income.

Payments of interest and principal on surplus notes, which are
    subordinate to all other obligations of the issuing company, may
    be made only with the prior approval of the insurance department
    of the state of domicile.

F-183

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of
    Registrant   (Continued)  

3.    

Long-term
    and Short-term Debt  

Long-term
    Debt   

Long-term debt outstanding is as follows:

There are no maturities of long-term debt in 2010. Aggregate
    maturities of long-term debt for the subsequent four years are
    $750 million in 2011, $797 million in 2012,
    $498 million in 2013, $351 million in 2014 and
    $8,562 million thereafter.

Short-term
    Debt   

Short-term debt with maturities less than one year is as follows:

During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    the weighted average interest rate on short-term debt was 1.25%,
    2.5% and 4.9%, respectively.

Interest
    Expense   

Interest expense is comprised of the following:

4.    

Support
    Agreements  

The Holding Company is party to various capital support
    commitments and guarantees with certain of its subsidiaries and
    a corporation in which it owns 50% of the equity. Under these
    arrangements, the Holding Company has agreed to cause each such
    entity to meet specified capital and surplus levels or has
    guaranteed certain contractual obligations.

F-184

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc. 

Schedule II 

Notes to
    the Condensed Financial Information of
    Registrant   (Continued)  

In December 2009, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MetLife Reinsurance Company of Vermont s ( MRV )
    reinsurance of certain universal life and term life insurance
    risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take
    necessary action to cause the third protected cell of MRV to
    maintain total adjusted capital equal to or greater than 200% of
    such protected cell s authorized control level risk-based
    capital ( RBC ), as defined in state insurance
    statutes. The details of this transaction are disclosed in
    Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

In October 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with
    MRV s reinsurance of certain universal life and term life
    insurance risks, committed to the Vermont Department of Banking,
    Insurance, Securities and Health Care Administration to take
    necessary action to cause each of the two initial protected
    cells of MRV to maintain total adjusted capital equal to or
    greater than 200% of such protected cell s authorized
    control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.
    The details of this transaction are disclosed in Note 11 of
    the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRC s
    reinsurance of a portion of the liabilities associated with the
    closed block, committed to the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance to make capital contributions, if necessary, to MRC so
    that MRC may at all times maintain its total adjusted capital at
    a level of not less than 200% of the company action
    level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes as in
    effect on the date of determination or December 31, 2007,
    whichever calculation produces the greater capital requirement,
    or as otherwise required by the South Carolina Department of
    Insurance. This collateral financing arrangement is more fully
    described in Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

In May 2007, the Holding Company, in connection with the
    collateral financing arrangement associated with MRSC s
    reinsurance of universal life secondary guarantees, committed to
    the South Carolina Department of Insurance to take necessary
    action to cause MRSC to maintain total adjusted capital equal to
    the greater of $250,000 or 100% of MRSC s authorized
    control level RBC, as defined in state insurance statutes.
    This collateral financing arrangement is more fully described in
    Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

The Holding Company has net worth maintenance agreements with
    two of its insurance subsidiaries, MetLife Investors Insurance
    Company and First MetLife Investors Insurance Company. Under
    these agreements, as subsequently amended, the Holding Company
    agreed, without limitation as to the amount, to cause each of
    these subsidiaries to have a minimum capital and surplus of
    $10 million, total adjusted capital at a level not less
    than 150% of the company action level RBC, as defined by
    state insurance statutes, and liquidity necessary to enable it
    to meet its current obligations on a timely basis.

The Holding Company has a net worth maintenance agreement with
    Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife Insurance Company Limited
    ( MSMIC ), an investment in Japan of which the Holding
    Company owns 50% of the equity. Under the agreement, the Holding
    Company agreed, without limitation as to amount, to cause MSMIC
    to have the amount of capital and surplus necessary for MSMIC to
    maintain a solvency ratio of at least 400%, as calculated in
    accordance with the Insurance Business Law of Japan, and to make
    such loans to MSMIC as may be necessary to ensure that MSMIC has
    sufficient cash or other liquid assets to meet its payment
    obligations as they fall due.

The Holding Company has guaranteed the obligations of its
    subsidiary, Exeter, under a reinsurance agreement with MSMIC
    under which Exeter reinsures variable annuities written by MSMIC.

Based on management s analysis and comparison of its
    current and future cash inflows from the dividends it receives
    from subsidiaries that are permitted to be paid without prior
    insurance regulatory approval, its asset portfolio and other
    cash flows and anticipated access to the capital markets,
    management believes there will be sufficient liquidity and
    capital to enable the Holding Company to make payments on debt,
    make cash dividend payments on its common and preferred stock,
    contribute capital to its subsidiaries, pay all operating
    expenses and meet its cash needs.

F-185

Table of Contents   

Supplementary Insurance Information For Insurance Companies Disclosure

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule III  

Consolidated
    Supplementary Insurance Information 
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Amounts are included within the future policy benefits, other
    policyholder funds and policyholder dividend obligation column. 

F-186

Table of Contents   

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule III   (Continued)  

Consolidated
    Supplementary Insurance Information 
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
    (In millions)  

(1)  

Includes other expenses and policyholder dividends, excluding
    amortization of DAC and VOBA charged to other expenses. 

F-187

Table of Contents   

Supplemental Schedule Of Reinsurance Premiums For Insurance Companies

MetLife,
    Inc.  

Schedule IV 
       
    Consolidated Reinsurance 
    December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 
    (In millions)  

F-188

Table of Contents   

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Management, with the participation of the Chief Executive
    Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the
    effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on
    that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and
    procedures are effective.

There were no changes to the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, the Company s internal control over financial
    reporting.

Management s
    Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting   

Management of MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. In fulfilling this responsibility,
    estimates and judgments by management are required to assess the
    expected benefits and related costs of control procedures. The
    objectives of internal control include providing management with
    reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are
    safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition,
    and that transactions are executed in accordance with
    management s authorization and recorded properly to permit
    the preparation of consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with GAAP.

Financial management has documented and evaluated the
    effectiveness of the internal control of the Company at
    December 31, 2009 pertaining to financial reporting in
    accordance with the criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

In the opinion of management, MetLife, Inc. maintained effective
    internal control over financial reporting at December 31,
    2009.

Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered
    public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial
    statements and consolidated financial statement schedules
    included in the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the year ended December 31, 2009. The Report of the
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on their audit of
    the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial
    statement schedules is included at
     page F-1. 

Attestation
    Report of the Company s Registered Public Accounting
    Firm   

The Company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, has issued their
    attestation report on management s internal control over
    financial reporting which is set forth below.

174

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

MetLife, Inc.:

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
    MetLife, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of
    December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. The Company s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
    Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
    on the Company s internal control over financial reporting
    based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
    company s principal executive and principal financial
    officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected
    by the company s board of directors, management, and other
    personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
    financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or
    improper management override of controls, material misstatements
    due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a
    timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
    effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting
    to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may
    become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
    degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
    deteriorate.

In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated financial statements and financial statement
    schedules as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009,
    of the Company and our report dated February 26, 2010
    expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
    statements and financial statement schedules and included an
    explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s
    method of accounting for the recognition and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses for certain investments as required by
    accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009.

/s/   DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP 

DELOITTE  
    TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2010

175

Table of Contents   

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

On February 23, 2010 the Compensation Committee of the
    Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. approved payment of annual
    incentive compensation awards, including awards in the following
    amounts to the following executive officers (the
     Officers ):

The Committee exercised its judgment in approving these awards
    taking into account the Company s overall business and
    financial performance, as well as business unit and individual
    Officer performance for 2009. Under the leadership of
    Mr. Henrikson and the Holding Company s Executive
    Group, including the Officers, the Company achieved in 2009
    operating earnings available to common shareholders of
    $2.4 billion, operating earnings available to common
    shareholders per diluted share of $2.87, operating return on
    common equity of 6.7% and December 31, 2009 book value per
    diluted common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive
    income (loss), of $41.50. The Company s premiums, fee and
    other revenues increased to $34.0 billion from
    $32.9 billion in 2008. The Company achieved strong results
    on the Federal Reserve s Supervisory Capital Assessment of
    the 19 largest financial holding companies (the  stress
    test ), and was the only one of the 19 companies that
    did not participate in the Troubled Asset Relief Program.

The Committee also considered certain non-financial achievements
    in making these awards. The Company held or gained market share
    in U.S. Business, grew International s premiums, fees
    and other revenues, maintained risk management and product
    pricing discipline, and exceeded 2009 targets in the Operational
    Excellence initiative resulting in significant annual expense
    savings and improvements in overall business processes.

The Committee recognized the fact that these results were
    achieved in a difficult economic climate. It also considered
    each Officer s performance in light of the Officer s
    particular goals in determining the Officer s annual
    incentive award. The factors considered for each Officer will be
    described in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 27,
    2010.

Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code limits the
    deductibility of compensation paid to four of the Holding
    Company s most highly-compensated executives, but exempts
    certain  performance-based  compensation from those
    limits. Earlier in 2009, the Committee established limits for
    awards under the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan
    ( AVIP ) to the Holding Company s Executive Group
    members. These limits were established for the tax purpose of
    qualifying AVIP awards for 2009 under Section 162(m), and
    were based on the Company s net income for 2009. Since the
    Company had negative net income, the Committee was precluded
    from making deductible AVIP awards to four of the Holding
    Company s most highly-compensated executives. The annual
    incentive awards the Committee approved were not made under AVIP
    and will not be deductible with respect to these executives. The
    estimated value of the lost deduction is approximately
    $2 million.

In making these awards, the Committee took into account all of
    the above factors as well as the fact that the Company would
    have derived positive net income but for a net investment loss
    of $3.2 billion that was related largely to derivative
    positions the Company held as part of its overall risk
    management and asset-liability management strategies. The risk
    management derivatives are part of the Company s
    risk-mitigation strategy to hedge interest rate, equity,
    currency, and credit risks. If the Company had not used the risk
    management derivatives, management believes the Company may have
    been exposed to excessive risks and may not have been managing
    its risks in a prudent manner. Accordingly, the Committee
    concluded that these net losses were significantly related to
    prudent risk management.

Benefit plans in which the Officers participate will be amended
    effective February 22, 2010 so that the 2009 annual
    incentive compensation awards will be included as part of the
    compensation used to determine benefits on the same basis as
    AVIP awards.

176

Table of Contents   

Each of the Officers  benefits under the MetLife Auxiliary
    Pension Plan (the  Auxiliary Pension Plan ) will be
    determined based on a definition of compensation that includes
    the 2009 annual incentive compensation awards. As a result of
    the amendments, Mr. Wheeler s and
    Mr. Kandarian s pension benefits will reflect a
    company contribution equal to 10% of their 2009 annual incentive
    compensation awards to their respective personal retirement
    accounts. The amendments will increase the annual present value
    of Mr. Henrikson s traditional formula pension benefit
    that will be accrued through 2010 (by approximately $180,000)
    because the 2009 annual incentive compensation award is included
    in the calculation of his traditional formula benefit. Each of
    the Officers will also receive a company contribution equal to
    4% of their 2009 annual incentive compensation awards in the
    Metropolitan Life Auxiliary Savings and Investment Plan, a
    nonqualified defined contribution plan.

Each Officer will receive disability benefits coverage from
    March 15, 2010 through March 15, 2011, taking into
    account the value of the 2009 annual incentive compensation
    awards as part of the income that would be replaced should the
    Officer qualify for benefits. In addition, Mr. Henrikson
    and Mr. Toppeta will each receive survivor income benefits
    coverage from January 1, 2011 through March 15, 2011,
    taking into account the value of his 2009 annual incentive
    compensation award as part of the income that would be replaced
    as death benefits.

The above discussion includes references to our performance
    measures operating earnings and operating earnings available to
    common shareholders that are not based on GAAP. Operating
    earnings is the measure of segment profit or loss we use to
    evaluate segment performance and allocate resources and,
    consistent with GAAP accounting guidance for segment reporting,
    is our measure of segment performance. Operating earnings is
    also a measure by which our senior management s and many
    other employees  performance is evaluated for the purposes
    of determining their compensation under applicable compensation
    plans. Operating earnings available to common shareholders is
    defined as operating earnings less preferred stock dividends.
    Operating earnings per diluted share is determined by dividing
    operating earnings available to common shareholders by the
    number of weighted average diluted common shares outstanding.
    Operating return on common equity is determined by dividing
    operating earnings available to common shareholders by average
    common equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive loss.
    Book value per diluted common share, excluding accumulated other
    comprehensive loss, is determined by dividing book value less
    accumulated other comprehensive loss by the number of weighted
    average diluted common shares outstanding. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  for additional
    information regarding how the Company calculates operating
    earnings and operating earnings available to common shareholders.

December 31, 2009 

(In millions, 

except share and 

per share data) 

Income (loss) from continuing operations, net of income tax

$

(2,318

)

Less: Net investment gains (losses)

(7,772

)

Less: Other adjustments to continuing operations

284

Less: Provision for income tax expense (benefit)

2,683

Operating earnings

2,487

Less: Preferred stock dividends

122

Operating earnings available to common shareholders

$

2,365

Weighted average common stock outstanding for basic operating
    earnings available to common shareholders per common share

818,462,150

Incremental common shares from assumed:

Exercise or issuance of stock-based awards

4,213,700

Weighted average common stock outstanding for diluted operating
    earnings available to common shareholders per common share

822,675,850

Operating earnings available to common shareholders per diluted
    share

$

2.87

177

Table of Contents   

Part III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Directors
    is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled
     Proposal One   Election of Directors, 
     Corporate Governance   Information About the
    Board of Directors,   Corporate Governance  
    Board Committees,   Corporate Governance  
    Membership on Board Committees  and  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  
    Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance  in MetLife, Inc. s definitive proxy
    statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    April 27, 2010, to be filed by MetLife, Inc. with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC )
    pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the
    year ended December 31, 2009 (the  2010 Proxy
    Statement ).

The information called for by this Item pertaining to Executive
    Officers appears in  Part I   Item 1.
    Business   Executive Officers of the Registrant 
    and  Security Ownership of Directors and Executive
    Officers   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance  in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

The Company has adopted the MetLife Financial Management Code of
    Professional Conduct (the  Financial Management
    Code ), a  code of ethics  as defined under the
    rules of the SEC, that applies to the Holding Company s
    Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
    Accounting Officer, Corporate Controller and all professionals
    in finance and finance-related departments. In addition, the
    Company has adopted the Directors  Code of Business Conduct
    and Ethics (the  Directors  Code ) which applies
    to all members of the Holding Company s Board of Directors,
    including the Chief Executive Officer, and the Employee Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics (together with the Financial
    Management Code and the Directors  Code, collectively, the
     Ethics Codes ), which applies to all employees of the
    Company, including the Holding Company s Chief Executive
    Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer.
    The Ethics Codes are available on the Company s website at
     http://www.metlife.com/about/corporate-profile/corporate-governance/corporate-conduct/index.html. 
    The Company intends to satisfy its disclosure obligations under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    by posting information about amendments to, or waivers from a
    provision of, the Ethics Codes that apply to the Holding
    Company s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer
    and Chief Accounting Officer on the Company s website at
    the address given above.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Board Committees,   Corporate
    Governance   Compensation of Non-Management
    Directors,   Compensation Committee Report, 
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary
    Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards in
    2009,   Outstanding Equity Awards at 2009 Fiscal-Year
    End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested in
    2009,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified
    Deferred Compensation  and  Potential Payments Upon
    Termination or
     Change-in-Control  
    in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

The information called for by this Item pertaining to ownership
    of the Holding Company s common stock is incorporated
    herein by reference to the sections entitled  Security
    Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers  and
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in
    the 2010 Proxy Statement. The following table provides

178

Table of Contents   

information, at December 31, 2009, regarding the securities
    authorized for issuance under the Holding Company s equity
    compensation plans:

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information at December 31,
    2009  

(1)  

Includes the MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the
     2000 Stock Plan ) and the MetLife, Inc.
    2000 Directors Stock Plan (the  2000 Directors
    Stock Plan ) each of which was approved by MLIC, the sole
    shareholder of the Holding Company at the time of approval. The
    policyholders of MLIC entitled to vote on its plan of
    reorganization (the  Plan ) approved that the Plan,
    which included both the 2000 Stock Plan and the
    2000 Directors Stock Plan. The policyholders entitled to so
    vote received a summary description of each plan, including the
    applicable limits on the number of shares available for issuance
    under each plan. 

(2)  

The aggregate number of shares of common stock of the Holding
    Company ( Shares ) reserved for issuance under the
    MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Stock Plan ), is 68,000,000. In addition,
    6,099,881 Shares that were available but had not been
    utilized under the 2000 Stock Plan became available for issuance
    under the 2005 Stock Plan at the time the 2005 Stock Plan became
    effective. At December 31, 2009, 6,919,058 additional
    Shares recovered due to forfeiture or expiration of awards under
    the 2000 Stock Plan from the time the 2005 Stock Plan became
    effective were also available for issuance under the 2005 Stock
    Plan. 

Under the 2005 Stock Plan, awards granted may be in the form of
    Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or
    Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Share
    Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based Awards (each as
    defined in the 2005 Stock Plan). At December 31, 2009,
    Stock Options, Performance Shares, Restricted Stock Units and
    Stock-Based Awards have been awarded under the 2005 Stock Plan. 

Stock Options outstanding as December 31, 2009 are included
    in column (a) and are included in column (b) at their
    weighted average exercise price. 

Under the award agreements that apply to the Performance Share
    awards made as of December 31, 2009, Shares are payable to
    eligible award recipients following the conclusion of the
    performance period. The number of shares payable is determined
    by multiplying the number of performance shares by a performance
    factor (from 0% to 200%) based on the performance of the Holding
    Company with respect to: (i) change in annual net operating
    earnings per share; and (ii) proportionate total
    shareholder return, as defined, as a percentile of the
    performance of other companies in the Fortune
    500   

    companies in the Standard   Poor s Insurance
    Index, with regard to the performance period. With respect to
    Performance Share awards made in 2009, no Performance Shares
    will be payable unless the Holding Company generates positive
    net income for either the third year of the performance period
    or for the performance period as a whole. In addition, with
    respect to Performance Share awards made in 2009, the
    performance factor will be multiplied by 0.75 if the Holding
    Company s total shareholder return with regard to the
    performance period is zero percent or less. Performance Shares
    that were unvested on December 31, 2009, or that vested by
    December 31, 2009 but whose performance factor has not yet
    been determined and has not yet become payable, are included in
    column (a) assuming the maximum performance factor, but are
    not included in determining the weighted average in column
    (b) because they have no exercise price. 

Under the award agreements that apply to the Restricted Stock
    Unit awards, Shares equal to the number of Restricted Stock
    Units awarded are normally payable to eligible award recipients
    on the third or later  

179

Table of Contents   

anniversary of the date the Restricted Stock Units were granted.
    Restricted Stock Units that were unvested by December 31,
    2009 are included in column (a), but are not included in
    determining the weighted average in column (b) because they
    have no exercise price. 

Shares that had become payable from any awards but had been
    deferred and remained unpaid as of December 31, 2009 are
    included in column (a), but are not included in determining the
    weighted average in column (b) because they have no
    exercise price. 

Each Share issued under the 2005 Stock Plan in connection with
    awards other than Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights
    (including Shares payable on account of Performance Shares,
    Restricted Stock Units, and Stock-Based Awards) reduces the
    number of Shares remaining for issuance under the 2005 Stock
    Plan by 1.179 Shares. Accordingly, outstanding Performance
    Shares are reflected as reducing the number of Shares remaining
    for issuance by a factor of 1.179. Each Share issued under the
    2005 Stock Plan in connection with a Stock Option or Stock
    Appreciation Right reduces the number of Shares remaining for
    issuance under the 2005 Stock Plan by 1.0. Accordingly,
    outstanding Stock Options are reflected as reducing the number
    of Shares remaining for issuance by a factor of 1.0. 

Share awards to Directors were made under a separate Share award
    authorization under the 2000 Directors Stock Plan. Those
    awards have not reduced the number of Shares remaining available
    for issuance as of December 31, 2009. Under the MetLife,
    Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation Plan (the
     2005 Directors Stock Plan ), awards granted may
    be in the form of non-qualified Stock Options, Stock
    Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards (each as defined in the
    2005 Directors Stock Plan). Stock-Based awards have been
    made under the 2005 Directors Stock Plan. The number of
    Shares reserved for issuance under the 2005 Directors Stock
    Plan is 2,000,000. 

Under both the 2005 Stock Plan and the 2005 Directors Stock
    Plan, in the event of a corporate event or transaction
    (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares or the
    capitalization of the Holding Company) such as a merger,
    consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation,
    stock dividend, extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse
    stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of stock
    or property of the Holding Company, combination of securities,
    exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change
    in capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash
    dividends) to shareholders of the Holding Company, or any
    similar corporate event or transaction, the appropriate
    committee of the Board of Directors of the Holding Company
    (each, a  Committee ), in order to prevent dilution or
    enlargement of participants  rights under the applicable
    plan, shall in its sole discretion substitute or adjust, as
    applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued
    under that plan and shall adjust the number and kind of Shares
    subject to outstanding awards. Any Shares related to awards
    under either plan which: (i) terminate by expiration,
    forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of
    Shares; (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares
    or otherwise; or (iii) are exchanged with the appropriate
    Committee s permission for awards not involving Shares, are
    available again for grant under the applicable plan. If the
    option price of any Stock Option granted under either plan or
    the tax withholding requirements with respect to any award
    granted under either plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to
    the Holding Company (by either actual delivery or by
    attestation), or if a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised,
    only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if
    any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the
    maximum number of Shares available for issuance under that plan.
    The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under either
    plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend
    equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or
    credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units,
    or Stock-Based Awards. 

180

Table of Contents   

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate
    Governance   Procedures for Reviewing Related Person
    Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  
    Information About the Board of Directors  
    Responsibilities, Independence and Composition of the Board of
    Directors  in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein
    by reference to the section entitled
     Proposal Two   Ratification of Appointment
    of the Independent Auditor  in the 2010 Proxy Statement.

181

Table of Contents   

Part IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1. Financial Statements

The financial statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated
    Financial Statements and Schedules on page 173.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

The financial statement schedules are listed in the Index to
    Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules on page 173.

3. Exhibits

The exhibits are listed in the Exhibit Index which begins
    on
     page E-1. 

182

Table of Contents   

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

February 26, 2010

METLIFE, INC.

By 

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

Name:     C. Robert Henrikson

Title: 

Chairman of the Board, President 

and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

183

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   David
    Satcher, M.D. 

David
    Satcher, M.D.

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/   Kenton
    J. Sicchitano 

Kenton
    J. Sicchitano

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/   William
    C. Steere, Jr. 

William
    C. Steere, Jr.

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/   Lulu
    C. Wang 

Lulu
    C. Wang

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/   C.
    Robert Henrikson 

C.
    Robert Henrikson

Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
    (Principal Executive Officer)

February 26, 2010

/s/   William
    J. Wheeler 

William
    J. Wheeler

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal
    Financial Officer)

February 26, 2010

/s/   Peter
    M. Carlson 

Peter
    M. Carlson

Executive Vice President, Finance Operations and Chief
    Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

February 26, 2010

184

Table of Contents   

Exhibit Index  

( Note Regarding Reliance on Statements in Our
    Contracts:   In reviewing the agreements included
    as exhibits to this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    please remember that they are included to provide you with
    information regarding their terms and are not intended to
    provide any other factual or disclosure information about
    MetLife, Inc., its subsidiaries or the other parties to the
    agreements. The agreements contain representations and
    warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement.
    These representations and warranties have been made solely for
    the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and
    (i) should not in all instances be treated as categorical
    statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk
    to one of the parties if those statements prove to be
    inaccurate; (ii) have been qualified by disclosures that
    were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation
    of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not
    necessarily reflected in the agreement; (iii) may apply
    standards of materiality in a way that is different from what
    may be viewed as material to investors; and (iv) were made
    only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other
    date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are
    subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these
    representations and warranties may not describe the actual state
    of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time.
    Additional information about MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries
    may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and MetLife, Inc. s other public filings, which are
    available without charge through the SEC s website at
    www.sec.gov.) 

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

2

.1

Plan of Reorganization (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1
    to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No.
    333-91517) (the  S-1 Registration Statement )).

2

.2

Amendment to Plan of Reorganization dated as of March 9, 2000
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the S-1
    Registration Statement).

2

.3

Acquisition Agreement between MetLife, Inc. and Citigroup Inc.,
    dated as of January 31, 2005.

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of MetLife,
    Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2006 (the  2006 Annual Report )).

3

.2

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A
    Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed
    with the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 7, 2000
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the 2006 Annual
    Report).

3

.3

Certificate of Designations of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative
    Preferred Stock, Series A, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the
    Secretary of State of Delaware on June 10, 2005 (Incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration
    Statement on Form 8-A filed on June 10, 2005).

3

.4

Certificate of Designations of 6.50% Non-Cumulative Preferred
    Stock, Series B, of MetLife, Inc., filed with the Secretary of
    State of Delaware on June 14, 2005 (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 99.5 to MetLife, Inc. s Registration Statement on
    Form 8-A filed on June 15, 2005).

3

.5

MetLife, Inc. Amended and Restated By-Laws effective January 26,
    2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 29, 2010).

4

.1(a)

Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 between MetLife, Inc. and
    Bank One Trust Company, N.A. (predecessor to The Bank of New
    York Trust Company, N.A.) relating to Senior Debt Securities
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual
    Report).

4

.1(b)

Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities between MetLife,
    Inc. and one or more banking institutions to be qualified as
    Trustee pursuant to Section 305(b)(2) of the Trust Indenture Act
    of 1939 (Included in Exhibit 4.1(a) incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.1(a) to the 2006 Annual Report, except for the name of
    the trustee).

4

.2

Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 27, 2001
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.125% Senior Notes due December 1, 2011
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the 2006 Annual
    Report).

E-1

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

4

.3

Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 15, 2012
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to MetLife,
    Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2007 (the  2007 Annual Report )).

4

.4

Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 10, 2002
    between MetLife, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A.
    (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A.)
    relating to the 6.50% Senior Notes due December 15, 2032
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the 2007 Annual
    Report).

4

.5

Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 21, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.875% Senior Notes due
    November 21, 2033 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to
    MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
    year ended December 31, 2008 (the  2008 Annual
    Report )).

4

.6

Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 24, 2003
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A.) relating to the 5.00% Senior Notes due
    November 24, 2013 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
    the 2008 Annual Report).

4

.7

Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004 between
    MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
    Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 5.50% Senior Notes due
    June 15, 2014.

4

.8

Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004 between
    MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
    Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 6.375% Senior Notes due
    June 15, 2034.

4

.9

Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 23, 2004 between
    MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
    Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 5.50% Senior Notes due
    June 15, 2014.

4

.10

Tenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 23, 2004 between
    MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
    Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 6.375% Senior Notes due
    June 15, 2034.

4

.11

Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 9, 2004
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 5.375% Senior
    Notes due December 9, 2024.

4

.12

Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2005 between
    MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
    Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 5.00% Senior Notes due
    June 15, 2015 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
    MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 23,
    2005 (the  June 23, 2005 Form 8-K )).

4

.13

Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 23, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 5.70% Senior
    Notes due June 15, 2035 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.3 to the June 23, 2005 Form 8-K).

4

.14

Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29, 2005
    between MetLife, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company,
    National Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust
    Company, N.A.), as trustee, relating to the 5.25% Senior
    Notes due June 29, 2020 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.1 to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
    June 29, 2005 (the  June 29, 2005 Form 8-K )).

4

.15

Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated May 29, 2009, between
    MetLife, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company,
    N.A. (as successor in interest to J.P. Morgan Trust
    Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
    Company, N.A.)), as trustee, relating to the 6.75% Senior
    Notes due June 1, 2016 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
    to MetLife, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29,
    2009 (the  May 2009 Form 8-K )).

E-2

Table of Contents   

E-3

Table of Contents   

E-4

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

No. 

Description 

4

.52

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VI (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the 2007 S-3 Registration
    Statement).

4

.53

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VII (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the 2007 S-3 Registration
    Statement).

4

.54

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust VIII (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the 2007 S-3 Registration
    Statement).

4

.55

Declaration of Trust of MetLife Capital Trust IX (Incorporated
    by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the 2007 S-3 Registration
    Statement).

4

.56

Form of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital Trust
    VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX)
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the 2007 S-3
    Registration Statement).

4

.57

Form of Trust Preferred Security Certificate (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital Trust
    VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX)
    (Included in Exhibit 4.56 incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.13 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).

4

.58

Guarantee Agreement dated June 21, 2005 by and between MetLife,
    Inc., as Guarantor, and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National
    Association (predecessor to The Bank of New York Trust Company,
    N.A.), as Guarantee Trustee, relating to MetLife Capital
    Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.19 to the
    June 22, 2005 Form 8-K).

4

.59

Form of Trust Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement
    (substantially identical, except for names and dates, for
    MetLife Capital Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife
    Capital Trust VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife
    Capital Trust IX) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.15 to
    the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement).

4

.60

Form of Common Securities Guarantee Agreement (substantially
    identical, except for names and dates, for MetLife Capital
    Trust V, MetLife Capital Trust VI, MetLife Capital Trust
    VII, MetLife Capital Trust VIII and MetLife Capital Trust IX)
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the 2007 S-3
    Registration Statement).

4

.61

Removal and Appointment of Trustees of MetLife Capital
    Trust III (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the
    2004 S-3 Registration Statement).

4

.62

Form of Certificate for Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
    (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the S-1
    Registration Statement).

4

.63

Rights Agreement dated as of April 4, 2000 between MetLife, Inc.
    and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C. (predecessor to
    Mellon Investor Services LLC) (Incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.48 to the 2006 Annual Report).

4

.64

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A
    Junior Participating Preferred Stock of MetLife, Inc., filed
    with the Secretary of State of Delaware on April 7, 2000 (See
    Exhibit 3.2 above).

4

.65

Form of Right Certificate (Included as Exhibit B of Exhibit 4.63
    incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.48 to the 2006 Annual
    Report).

4

.66

Form of Warrant Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.21 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement)**.

4

.67

Form of Deposit Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.22 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement)**.

4

.68

Form of Depositary Receipt (Included in Exhibit 4.67
    incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.22 to the 2007 S-3
    Registration Statement)**.

4

.69

Form of Purchase Contract Agreement (Incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 4.24 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement)**.

4

.70

Form of Pledge Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
    4.25 to the 2007 S-3 Registration Statement)**.

E-5

Table of Contents   

E-6

Table of Contents   

E-7

Table of Contents   

E-8

Table of Contents   

E-9

Table of Contents   

E-10

Table of Contents   

101.INS

XBRL Instance Document.

101.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

101.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

101.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.

101.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.

101.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.

*  

Indicates management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements. 

**  

Indicates document to be filed as an exhibit to a Current Report
    on
     Form 8-K 
    or Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    pursuant to Item 601 of
     Regulation S-K 
    and incorporated herein by reference. 

E-11

<EX-2.3>
 2
 y81517exv2w3.txt
 EX-2.3

Exhibit 2.3

                              ACQUISITION AGREEMENT

                                 BY AND BETWEEN

                                 CITIGROUP INC.

                                       AND

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                          DATED AS OF JANUARY 31, 2005
 
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

i

ii

iii

ARTICLE XI MISCELLANEOUS

Section 11.1    Notices............................................................     95
Section 11.2    Governing Law......................................................     96
Section 11.3    Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process.................     96
Section 11.4    Entire Agreement...................................................     97
Section 11.5    Amendment, Modification and Waiver.................................     97
Section 11.6    Severability.......................................................     97
Section 11.7    Successors and Assigns; No Third-Party Beneficiaries...............     97
Section 11.8    Publicity..........................................................     98
Section 11.9    Use of Logos to Announce Transaction...............................     98
Section 11.10   WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL...............................................     98
Section 11.11   Expenses...........................................................     98
Section 11.12   Specific Performance and Other Equitable Relief....................     98
Section 11.13   Counterparts.......................................................     99
Section 11.14   No Other Representations or Warranties.............................     99

EXHIBITS:

Exhibit A-1     Transferred Subsidiaries
Exhibit A-2     Acquired Subsidiaries
Exhibit B-1     Form of Domestic Distribution Agreements
Exhibit B-2     Form of International Distribution Agreements
Exhibit C       Terms of Investment Management Agreement
Exhibit D       Terms of Licensing Agreement
Exhibit E       Terms of Investor Rights Agreement
Exhibit F       Restructuring Transactions
Exhibit G       Terms of Transition Services Agreement
Exhibit H       Terms of Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock
Exhibit I       Transition Planning
Exhibit J       Use of Logo

iv
 
                              ACQUISITION AGREEMENT

          This ACQUISITION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into as of
January 31, 2005, by and between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Parent"), and MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Purchaser") (together
with Parent, the "Parties," and each, individually, a "Party").

                                    RECITALS

          WHEREAS, certain indirect Subsidiaries (as defined herein) of Parent
set forth in Exhibit A-1 hereto (the "Transferred Subsidiaries") and certain of
their Subsidiaries set forth in Exhibit A-2 (together with the Transferred
Subsidiaries, the "Acquired Subsidiaries") conduct the Business (as defined
herein); and

          WHEREAS, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
herein, Sellers (as defined herein) desire to sell to Purchaser, and Purchaser
desires to purchase from Sellers, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock
(or equivalent equity interests) of the Transferred Subsidiaries owned by
Sellers (the "Transferred Shares").

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants
set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound,
the Parties hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I
                                   DEFINITIONS

          Section 1.1 Certain Defined Terms. For purposes of this Agreement,
unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:

          "Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries" shall mean those Acquired
     Subsidiaries that are created or organized in the United States or under
     the Law of the United States or of any state thereof.

          "Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries" shall mean those Acquired Subsidiaries
     that are not Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries.

          "Acquired Intellectual Property" shall mean the Owned Intellectual
     Property and the Licensed Intellectual Property.

          "Adjusted Capital and Surplus" shall mean, for TIC or CLIC, (i) its
     capital and surplus determined in accordance with SAP applied in a manner
     consistent with its past practice, plus (ii) its asset valuation reserve
     and the asset valuation reserves of its subsidiaries, determined in
     accordance with SAP applied in a manner consistent with its past practice,
     plus (iii) if the transaction set forth in Section 1.1(a) of the Sellers
 
     Disclosure Letter shall have been consummated, the statutory capital impact
     of such transaction, but in no event more than $50 million, minus (iv) the
     amount of any cash dividends contemplated to be made by TIC or CLIC on
     Exhibit F which have not been made prior to the Closing (calculated pro
     rata, in the case of quarterly dividends).

          "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person
     that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls,
     is controlled by or is under common control with such first Person. The
     term "control" (including its correlative meanings "controlled by" and
     "under common control with") shall mean possession, directly or indirectly,
     of power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies
     (whether through ownership of securities or partnership or other ownership
     interests, by contract or otherwise). For the avoidance of doubt, the Joint
     Ventures shall not be deemed Affiliates of any of the Acquired
     Subsidiaries.

          "AFJP" shall mean Siembra Administradora de Fondos de Jubilaciones y
     Pensiones S.A.

          "AHLIC" shall mean American Health & Life Insurance Company.

          "Annuity Contract" shall mean any annuity contract, funding agreement,
     guaranteed investment contract or similar contract, including endorsements,
     riders and amendments thereto, and forms with respect thereto, issued,
     assumed, reinsured, exchanged, modified, marketed or administered by the
     Acquired Subsidiaries.

          "Aon Report" shall mean the analysis and report prepared by Parent and
     its Affiliates and to be reviewed and signed by Aon Corporation or one of
     its Affiliates that will identify the products, if any, issued, assumed,
     exchanged, modified, sold or marketed by any of the Acquired Subsidiaries
     that are not compliant with applicable Tax Law.

          "Applicable Argentina Losses" shall mean Losses arising from or
     relating to (i) claims relating to the pesification prior to the date
     hereof, pursuant to the decrees specified in Section 1.1(b)(i) of the
     Sellers Disclosure Letter, of Insurance Contracts to which any of the
     Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the assets
     of the Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries is subject, less any specific
     reserves therefor on SSdRSA's or SSdVSA's books, (ii) death and disability
     claims of AFJP customers from policies set forth in Section 1.1(b)(ii) of
     the Sellers Disclosure Letter incurred as of the Closing Date in excess of
     the reserves on the Closing Date Balance Sheet, (iii) the failure by AFJP
     to achieve the target performance guarantee specified in Section
     1.1(b)(iii) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter by virtue of the investment of
     funds in Argentinean sovereign (federal and provincial) debt and (iv)
     claims by or on behalf of AFJP customers alleging breach of fiduciary duty,
     mismanagement or the like, by reason of (x) investment decisions by AFJP
     prior to the Closing Date of such customers' assets in Argentinean
     sovereign (federal and provincial) debt defaulted prior to the Closing Date
     or (y) the debt exchange of January 17, 2005 pursuant to the decree set
     forth in Section 1.1(b)(iv) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter; provided that
     the Applicable Argentina Losses shall not include any Losses not expressly
     included in clauses (i) to (iv) above.

2
 
          "Applicable Argentina Losses Threshold" shall mean the Applicable
     Argentina Losses up to an amount equal to five hundred million dollars
     ($500,000,000).

          "Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries" shall mean SSdRSA, SSdVSA, AFJP,
     CP and Best Market S.A.

          "Applicable Litigation Losses" shall mean Losses arising from or
     relating to the matters set forth in Section 1.1(c) of the Sellers
     Disclosure Letter.

          "Applicable LTC Losses" shall mean (i) all Losses, net of inuring
     reinsurance and insurance actually collected by TIC, of TIC based upon or
     arising out of the LTC Policies, including, after the Closing Date, the
     Acquired Subsidiaries, including all (A) benefit payments arising under or
     relating to such policies, (B) amounts payable for returns or refunds of
     premium under such policies, (C) commissions and similar payments payable
     in respect of such policies, (D) premium taxes and retaliatory taxes
     payable which are attributable to such policies, (E) extra-contractual
     liabilities and obligations payable that relate to or arise under such
     policies and arise from conduct prior to the Closing Date (including fines,
     penalties, forfeiting, compensatory, contractual, exemplary, punitive,
     statutory or similar extra-contractual damage that relates to or arises in
     connection with any alleged or actual act, error or omission prior to the
     Closing Date in connection with such policies, whether or not intentional,
     negligent, in bad faith or otherwise) and (F) all losses, liabilities,
     costs, fees and expenses arising out of (1) TIC's participation in any
     joint underwriting associating guaranty fund or other governmental mandated
     program or association of any kind that is predicated in any way on such
     policies or the premium value generated by such policies, regardless of
     when the losses, liabilities, costs or expenses are incurred, any premium,
     loss or charge is assessed, or any policy under any such association, fund
     or program is written, (2) the handling of any claim under any such
     policies prior to the Closing Date and (3) obligations to reinsurers under
     reinsurance agreements relating to such policies, whether for premiums,
     additional premiums or otherwise; and (ii) Losses of TIC or any other
     Acquired Subsidiaries arising under or relating to the LTC Acquisition
     Agreement, the LTC Agreement or the NY LTC Agreement, including any
     obligation to indemnify GECA under the LTC Acquisition Agreement, other
     than any Losses to the extent arising out of or relating to any action or
     omission of Purchaser and its Affiliates, including, after the Closing, the
     Acquired Subsidiaries.

          "Applicable LTC Losses Threshold" shall mean the Applicable LTC Losses
     up to an amount initially equal to zero, which amount shall be adjusted
     over time by (i) increasing such amount on a dollar-for-dollar basis in
     respect of earnings recognized by Purchaser or its Affiliates when and as
     recognized by such Persons as amortization of any deferred gain reflected
     on the financial statements of the Acquired Subsidiary resulting from the
     LTC Agreement, NY LTC Agreement and the LTC Acquisition Agreement that is
     able to be recognized under GAAP following the Closing or (ii) decreasing
     such amount by the amount of the Applicable LTC Losses, which but for the
     Applicable LTC Losses Threshold, would have been paid by Parent to
     Purchaser.

3
 
          "Applicable Other Losses" shall mean penalties, fines, assessments,
     other monetary sanctions and amounts payable to funds or other set asides
     which arise from or relate to the matters set forth in Section 1.1(d) of
     the Sellers Disclosure Letter and are mandated by, or agreed to with, the
     applicable Governmental Authority identified in Section 1.1(d) of the
     Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          "Applicable Shared Losses" means Losses, net of inuring reinsurance
     and insurance actually collected as well as net of reserves and accruals on
     the December 31 Balance Sheet, arising from or relating to (i) allegations
     that the Acquired Subsidiaries learned or should have learned of health
     risks posed by asbestos and improperly publicized or failed to disclose
     those health risks, other than liabilities arising under insurance or
     reinsurance contracts, (ii) asbestos liabilities of the International
     Insurance Companies and the Joint Ventures arising out of risks and
     exposures entirely outside the United States and its territories and (iii)
     liabilities to third parties arising out of the marketing and sale of COLI
     policies, other than to the extent of claims for benefits arising under the
     terms of the COLI policies themselves.

          "Applicable Stock Price" shall mean the Average Stock Price calculated
     by reference to the Closing Date; provided that if the Average Stock Price
     is $36.47 per share or less, the Applicable Stock Price shall be $36.47;
     provided, further, that in the event that the Average Stock Price is
     greater than $44.57 per share, the Applicable Stock Price shall be $44.57;
     and provided, further, that if after the date hereof and prior to Closing
     the outstanding shares of Purchaser Common Stock shall have been changed
     into a different number of shares or a different class, by reason of any
     stock split, dividend, distribution, subdivision, reclassification,
     recapitalization, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, the
     foregoing method for determining the Applicable Stock Price shall be
     correspondingly adjusted to reflect such stock split, dividend,
     distribution, subdivision, reclassification, recapitalization,
     reorganization, combination or exchange of shares.

          "Applicable TIN Losses" shall mean Losses arising from or relating to
     any failure of TIN to perform its obligations under the reinsurance
     agreements identified in Section 1.1(e) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter as
     a result of being determined to be insolvent or placed into receivership.

          "Aristar" shall mean the Aristar Insurance Company.

          "Average Stock Price" shall mean the average of the closing prices of
     Purchaser Common Stock on the Composite Tape of the NYSE as reported in The
     Wall Street Journal, for the ten (10) trading days immediately preceding
     the Closing Date.

          "Business" shall mean the businesses carried on by the Acquired
     Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures, after giving effect to the
     transactions contemplated by Section 6.14, including life insurance and
     annuity operations, product administration and operating those Acquired
     Subsidiaries that are registered broker-dealers. For the avoidance of
     doubt, the Business does not include any other insurance business conducted
     by any Affiliate of Parent, including the distribution of any insurance
     products (other than

4
 
     distribution currently conducted by the Acquired Subsidiaries) and the
     business conducted by PLIC and its Subsidiaries, the business conducted by
     AHLIC and its Subsidiaries, the business conducted by Triton and Aristar
     and the business conducted by GFBSAdCV and its Subsidiaries.

          "Business Confidential Information" shall mean all non-public
     information disclosed prior to the Closing by the Acquired Subsidiaries to
     any Seller, its Affiliates (other than the Acquired Subsidiaries) or their
     respective representatives (including information disclosed in the course
     of negotiation of this Agreement or the Related Agreements) that is related
     to the Business; provided, however, that the term Business Confidential
     Information shall not include any information independently developed by
     Sellers without violating any obligation under this Agreement, so long as
     such information was not obtained from a third party that Sellers knew or
     should have known misappropriated or otherwise wrongly obtained such
     knowledge from Purchaser or its Affiliates.

          "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or day
     on which banking institutions in New York, New York are authorized or
     obligated by Law or executive order to be closed.

          "Business Employee" shall mean all persons employed by Sellers or
     their Subsidiaries primarily in or in support of the Business as of the
     Closing; provided, that for purposes of (i) the definition of Sellers
     Benefit Plan, the term "Business Employee" shall be deemed to refer to any
     person employed by Sellers or their Subsidiaries primarily in or in support
     of the Business as of the date hereof, and (ii) Section 6.1(b)(vi), the
     term "Business Employee" shall be deemed to refer to any person employed by
     Sellers or their Subsidiaries primarily in or in support of the Business as
     of the date of the proposed action thereunder.

          "Business Material Adverse Effect" shall mean (i) a material adverse
     effect on the business, assets, properties, liabilities, results of
     operations or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Business, taken as
     a whole, excluding any such effect arising out of or in connection with or
     resulting from (A) general economic or business conditions, including
     interest or currency rates, or changes therein or any act of terrorism,
     similar calamity or war, to the extent that they do not have a materially
     disproportionate effect on the Business, (B) changes in Law or conditions
     or trends in economic, business, financial, regulatory or legal enforcement
     environment generally affecting the life insurance industry or the pension
     industry, to the extent that they do not have a materially disproportionate
     effect on the Business, (C) changes in GAAP or regulatory accounting
     principles, including SAP, after the date of this Agreement (in the case of
     clauses (A) through (C), globally or in any of the countries in which the
     Business is conducted), or (D) any action, omission, change, effect,
     circumstance or condition primarily attributable to the execution and
     delivery of this Agreement or the Related Agreements or the announcement of
     the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, which adversely affects
     the Acquired Subsidiaries' relationships with Business Employees, customers
     or distributors; or (ii) a material adverse change or effect on the ability
     of Sellers or any of their Affiliates to perform timely their obligations
     under this Agreement or the Related

5
 
     Agreements or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby
     on a timely basis.

          "CGLIC" shall mean Connecticut General Life Insurance Company.

          "CLIC" shall mean Citicorp Life Insurance Company.

          "Closing Agreement" shall mean a written and legally binding agreement
     with a Governmental Authority with respect to Taxes.

          "Closing RBC Ratio" shall mean, for TIC or CLIC, its RBC Ratio as of
     the date of the Closing Date Balance Sheet, taking into account the effect
     of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and, if the Net Price
     Adjustment is positive, treating TIC as having received as of such date a
     contribution to capital in an amount equal to the Net Price Adjustment.

          "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

          "COLI" shall mean corporate owned life insurance.

          "Copyrights" shall mean all registered and unregistered copyrights,
     including moral rights and rights of attribution and integrity, copyrights
     and any other proprietary rights in computer Software and the content
     contained on any Web site.

          "Covered Applicable Argentina Losses" shall mean the Applicable
     Argentina Losses for which Parent shall be required to indemnify the
     Purchaser Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 10.5(d).

          "Covered Applicable Litigation Losses" shall mean the Applicable
     Litigation Losses for which Parent shall be required to indemnify the
     Purchaser Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 10.5(h).

          "Covered Applicable LTC Losses" shall mean the Applicable LTC Losses
     for which Parent shall be required to indemnify Purchaser pursuant to
     Section 10.5(g).

          "Covered Applicable Other Losses" shall mean the Applicable Other
     Losses for which Parent shall be required to indemnify the Purchaser
     Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 10.5(f).

          "Covered Applicable Shared Losses" shall mean the Applicable Shared
     Losses for which Parent shall be required to indemnify the Purchaser
     Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 10.5(i).

          "Covered Applicable TIN Losses" shall mean the Applicable TIN Losses
     for which Parent shall be required to indemnify the Purchaser Indemnified
     Parties pursuant to Section 10.5(e).

          "CP" shall mean Compania Previsional Citi S.A.

6
 
          "December 31 Balance Sheet" shall mean the adjusted and combined
     balance sheet of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures as of
     December 31, 2004, giving effect to the transactions contemplated by
     Section 6.14, as attached hereto as Section 1.1(f) of the Sellers
     Disclosure Letter.

          "Deferred Taxes" shall mean deferred Tax assets or deferred Tax
     liabilities computed under GAAP in accordance with Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards No. 109.

          "Determination" shall have the meaning set forth in section 1313(a) of
     the Code or any similar state or local Tax Law.

          "Distribution Agreements" shall mean the Domestic Distribution
     Agreement and the International Distribution Agreement in the forms of
     Exhibit B-1 and Exhibit B-2 attached hereto and the related selling
     agreements contemplated thereby.

          "DOJ" shall mean the United States Department of Justice.

          "Domestic Insurance Companies" shall mean those entities set forth in
     Section 1.1(g) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          "Domestic Purchaser Insurance Companies" shall mean the Purchaser
     Insurance Companies which are licensed to do business in the United States.

          "Environmental Laws" shall mean any and all local, state and federal
     laws, regulations, codes, decrees, orders, judgments, principles of common
     law and binding judicial or administrative interpretation thereof
     pertaining to: (a) the protection of the environment (including air
     quality, surface water, groundwater, soils, subsurface strata, drinking
     water, natural resources and biota) or human health; or (b) the presence,
     use, processing, generation, management, storage, treatment, recycling,
     disposal, discharge, release, threatened release, investigation or
     remediation of Hazardous Materials, including the Federal Resource
     Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Comprehensive Environmental
     Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Federal Clean Water Act, the
     Federal Clean Air Act and the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Act
     (as it relates solely to exposure to Hazardous Materials) and their
     implementing regulations as well as state analogues.

          "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
     1974, as amended.

          "ERISA Affiliate" shall mean any trade or business, whether or not
     incorporated, that together with Sellers would be deemed a "single
     employer" within the meaning of section 4001(b) of ERISA.

          "Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet" shall mean the adjusted and
     combined balance sheet of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures
     which shall reflect Parent's good faith estimate of the Closing Date
     Balance Sheet and Final Total Equity and shall be prepared by Parent using
     the accounting principles, procedures, policies and

7
 
     methods used in preparing the Audited Balance Sheet, including the type of
     adjustments used in preparing the Audited Balance Sheet as set forth in the
     notes to the Audited Balance Sheet.

          "Estimated Total Equity" shall mean an amount equal to the Total
     Equity as reflected on the Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet.

          "Existing Shares" shall mean, as of the date in question, the number
     of shares of Purchaser capital stock owned by Parent or its Affiliates,
     including shares held in respect of or on behalf of a third party over
     which Parent or one of its Affiliates has the power to vote.

          "Federal Funds Rate" shall mean the offered rate as reported in The
     Wall Street Journal in the "Money Rates" section for reserves traded among
     commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of one million dollars or
     more on the Business Day immediately prior to the day on which a payment is
     due hereunder.

          "FTC" shall mean the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.

          "GAAP" shall mean U.S. generally accepted accounting principles as in
     effect as of the date hereof.

          "GECA" shall mean General Electric Capital Assurance Company.

          "GECLANY" shall mean GE Capital Life Assurance Company of New York.

          "GFBSAdCV" shall mean Grupo Financiero Banamex, S.A. de. C.V.

          "GMDB Reinsurance Agreement" shall mean the Variable Annuity Death
     Benefit Reinsurance Agreement, effective June 30, 1998, by and among TLAC,
     TIC and CGLIC.

          "Governmental Authority" shall mean any federal, state or local
     domestic, foreign or supranational governmental, regulatory or
     self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or other
     governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, including any competent
     governmental authority responsible for the determination, assessment or
     collection of Taxes.

          "Hazardous Materials" shall mean (a) any petrochemical or petroleum
     products or by-products, waste, waste oil, radon gas, asbestos in any form
     that is or could become friable or any material containing asbestos,
     lead-based paint, urea formaldehyde foam insulation and polychlorinated
     biphenyls; or (b) any chemicals, materials or substances defined in any
     Environmental Law as or included in the definition, or having the
     characteristics, of "hazardous substances," "hazardous chemicals,"
     "hazardous wastes," "hazardous materials," "toxic substances,"
     "contaminants" or "pollutants" or words of similar meaning or regulatory
     effect.

          "HKJV" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.1(h) of the
     Sellers Disclosure Letter.

8
 
          "Insurance Companies" shall mean the Domestic Insurance Companies and
     the International Insurance Companies.

          "Insurance Contracts" shall mean all insurance policies and contracts
     (other than reinsurance and retrocessional agreements), including
     endorsements, riders and amendments thereto, issued or administered by the
     Acquired Subsidiaries in connection with the Business.

          "Intellectual Property" shall mean all Copyrights, Patents,
     Trademarks, Trade Secrets, all other similar intangible assets, any
     applications for any of the foregoing and the right to sue for past
     infringement of any of the foregoing.

          "International Insurance Companies" shall mean those entities set
     forth in Section 1.1(i) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          "Investment Management Agreement" shall mean the Investment Management
     Agreement to be entered into as of the Closing, with such terms set forth
     in Exhibit C attached hereto and other customary terms.

          "Investor Rights Agreement" shall mean the Investor Rights Agreement
     to be entered into as of the Closing, with such terms set forth in Exhibit
     E attached hereto and other customary terms.

          "JJV" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.1(h) of the
     Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          "Joint Venture Agreements" shall mean those agreements set forth in
     Section 1.1(j) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          "Joint Ventures" shall mean the entities set forth in Section 1.1(h)
     of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          "Knowledge" shall mean, with respect to Sellers, the actual knowledge
     of the individuals set forth in Section 1.1(k) of the Sellers Disclosure
     Letter and, with respect to Purchaser, shall mean the actual knowledge of
     the individuals set forth in Section 1.1(a) of the Purchaser Disclosure
     Letter.

          "Law" shall mean any law (including common law), ordinance, writ,
     statute, treaty, rule or regulation.

          "Lease" shall mean any lease, sublease or license, including any
     amendment with respect thereto, pursuant to which the Acquired Subsidiaries
     use or hold any material Leased Real Property.

          "Leased Real Property" shall mean the real property leased by the
     Acquired Subsidiaries, as tenant, together with, to the extent leased by
     the Acquired Subsidiaries, all buildings and other structures, facilities
     or improvements currently located thereon, all

9
 
     fixtures thereto, and all easements, licenses, rights and other
     appurtenances relating to the foregoing.

          "Licensed Intellectual Property" shall mean the Intellectual Property
     owned by a third party that is used by any of the Acquired Subsidiaries,
     excluding off-the-shelf standard commercially available Software.

          "Licensing Agreement" shall mean the Licensing Agreement to be entered
     into as of the Closing, with such terms set forth in Exhibit D attached
     hereto and other customary terms.

          "Liens" shall mean any liens, pledges, charges, claims, security
     interests or other encumbrances.

          "Life Insurance Contract" shall mean any life insurance contract, and
     forms with respect thereto, issued, assumed, exchanged, modified, marketed,
     administered or reinsured by the Acquired Subsidiaries.

          "Losses" shall mean all costs, damages, disbursements, obligations,
     penalties, liabilities, assessments, judgments, losses, injunctions,
     orders, decrees, rulings, dues, fines, fees, settlements, deficiencies or
     awards (including interest, penalty, investigation, reasonable legal,
     accounting and other professional fees, and other costs or expenses
     incurred in the investigation, collection, prosecution and defense of any
     action, suit, proceeding or claim and amounts paid in settlement) imposed
     upon or incurred, sustained or suffered by an Indemnified Party; provided,
     however, that Losses shall include only actual losses, and shall not
     include (i) Taxes or (ii) lost profits or opportunity costs or
     consequential, incidental, special, indirect, exemplary or punitive
     damages, unless such consequential, incidental, special, indirect,
     exemplary or punitive damages are awarded against any of the Indemnified
     Parties in a Third Party Claim.

          "LTC Acquisition Agreement" shall mean the Acquisition Agreement,
     dated as of April 14, 2000, as amended, by and between TIC and GECA.

          "LTC Agreement" shall mean the Indemnity Reinsurance Agreement, dated
     as of July 1, 2000, by and between TIC and GECA.

          "LTC Amounts" shall mean (i) all amounts received by TIC pursuant to
     the LTC Agreement, (ii) all amounts received by TIC pursuant to the NY LTC
     Agreement; (iii) all amounts received by TIC pursuant to the LTC
     Acquisition Agreement; (iv) all incoming amounts and collections with
     respect to the LTC Policies, including premiums, fees, premium tax refunds,
     and recoveries of previously paid Losses; and (v) any LTC Reserves
     remaining after the satisfaction of all liabilities relating to the LTC
     Policies.

          "LTC Policies" shall mean the insurance policies reinsured by GECA
     pursuant to the LTC Agreement and by GECLANY pursuant to the NY LTC
     Agreement.

          "LTC Reserves" shall mean the reserves for the LTC Policies reflected
     on the Closing Date Balance Sheet, reduced by any LTC Losses.

10
 
          "Multi-employer Plan" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
     section 3(37) of ERISA.

          "NBLIC" shall mean National Benefit Life Insurance Company.

          "Net Price Adjustment" shall mean (a) the positive amount (if any)
     referred to in Section 2.2(i)(C) plus (b) the positive amount (if any) of a
     Final Adjustment Payment from Parent to Purchaser plus (c) the Shortfall
     Reference Equity (if any) minus (d) the positive amount (if any) referred
     to in Section 2.2(i)(B) minus (e) the positive amount (if any) of a Final
     Adjustment Payment from Purchaser to Parent minus (f) the Excess Reference
     Equity (if any).

          "Nominal Stock Consideration Amount" shall be the dollar value of the
     Stock Consideration to be included in the Closing Date Purchase Price;
     provided that in no event shall such amount exceed three billion dollars
     ($3,000,000,000).

          "NY LTC Agreement" shall mean the New York Indemnity Reinsurance
     Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2000, by and between TIC and GECLANY.

          "NYSE" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

          "Owned Intellectual Property" shall mean the Intellectual Property
     owned solely, or jointly with other parties, by any of the Acquired
     Subsidiaries.

          "Owned Real Property" shall mean the real property owned by any of the
     Acquired Subsidiaries, other than real property owned by the Acquired
     Subsidiaries for investment purposes, together with all buildings and other
     structures, facilities or improvements currently or hereafter located
     thereon, all fixtures thereto, and all easements, licenses, rights and
     other appurtenances relating to the foregoing.

          "Patents" shall mean all patents and patent applications, including
     any continuations, divisionals, continuations-in-part, renewals and
     reissues.

          "PC Liabilities" shall mean all liabilities and obligations based upon
     or arising out of policies or contracts of property and casualty insurance
     and reinsurance, without regard to inuring reinsurance.

          "Permits" shall mean all licenses, registrations, franchises, permits,
     certificates, approvals, accreditation or other similar authorizations from
     Governmental Authorities required for the conduct of the Business,
     including required under Environmental Laws.

          "Permitted Lien" shall mean any Lien (A) for Taxes, assessments and
     other governmental charges which are not yet due and payable or are being
     contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (B) deemed to be
     created by this Agreement or (C) which does not affect materially and
     adversely the current use, occupancy or value of the asset subject thereto.

11
 
          "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, business trust,
     partnership, association, limited liability company, unincorporated
     organization or similar organization, or any Governmental Authority.

          "PFS" shall mean Primerica Financial Services, Inc.

          "PLIC" shall mean Primerica Life Insurance Company.

          "Purchaser Disclosure Letter" shall mean a letter delivered by
     Purchaser to Parent on or before the execution and delivery of this
     Agreement setting forth, among other things, items the disclosure of which
     is required under this Agreement either in response to an express
     disclosure requirement contained in a provision of this Agreement or as an
     exception to one or more of the representations, warranties, covenants or
     agreements contained in this Agreement; provided that the mere inclusion of
     an item in the Purchaser Disclosure Letter as an exception to a
     representation or warranty will not be deemed an admission by Purchaser
     that such item (or any non-disclosed item or information of comparable or
     greater significance) represents a material exception or fact, event or
     circumstance or that such item has had or is expected to result in a
     Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.

          "Purchaser Insurance Companies" shall mean the Affiliates of Purchaser
     which (i) are licensed or authorized to conduct the business of insurance
     in any jurisdiction, (ii) carry on such business or (iii) hold themselves
     out as being so licensed or authorized.

          "Purchaser Material Adverse Effect" shall mean (i) a material adverse
     effect on the business, assets, properties, liabilities, results of
     operations or financial condition (financial or otherwise) of Purchaser and
     its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, excluding any such effect arising out
     of or in connection with or resulting from (A) general economic or business
     conditions, including interest or currency rates, or changes therein or any
     act of terrorism, similar calamity or war, to the extent that they do not
     have a materially disproportionate effect on Purchaser's business, (B)
     changes in Law or conditions or trends in economic, business, financial or
     regulatory or legal enforcement conditions generally affecting the
     insurance industry, to the extent that they do not have a materially
     disproportionate effect on Purchaser, (C) changes in GAAP or regulatory
     accounting principles, including SAP, after the date of this Agreement (in
     the case of clauses (A) through (C), globally or in any of the countries in
     which Purchaser's business is conducted), or (D) any action, omission,
     change, effect, circumstance or condition primarily attributable to the
     execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Related Agreements or the
     announcement of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, which
     adversely affects Purchaser's relationships with its employees, customers
     or distributors; or (ii) a material adverse change or effect on the ability
     of Purchaser to perform timely its obligations under this Agreement or the
     Related Agreements or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby or
     thereby on a timely basis.

          "Purchaser Rights Agreement" shall mean the Rights Agreement, dated as
     of April 4, 2000, by and between Purchaser and ChaseMellon Shareholder
     Services, L.L.C.

12
 
          "Purchaser SEC Documents" shall mean any forms, reports, schedules,
     statements, prospectuses and other documents and exhibits required to be
     publicly filed with, or furnished to, the SEC by Purchaser or any of its
     Subsidiaries since January 1, 2002 (as such forms, reports, schedules,
     statements, prospectuses and other documents have been amended and
     supplemented since the time of their respective filing or furnishing).

          "RBC Deficit" shall mean, as of the date of the Closing Date Balance
     Sheet, for TIC, the amount (if any) by which its Adjusted Capital and
     Surplus is less than that needed to give it a Closing RBC Ratio of 710%,
     and for CLIC, the amount (if any) by which its Adjusted Capital and Surplus
     is less than that needed to give it a Closing RBC Ratio of 650%.

          "RBC Excess" shall mean, as of the date of the Closing Date Balance
     Sheet, for TIC, the amount (if any) by which its Adjusted Capital and
     Surplus is more than that needed to give it a Closing RBC Ratio of 710%,
     and for CLIC, the amount (if any) by which its Adjusted Capital and Surplus
     is more than that needed to give it a Closing RBC Ratio of 650%.

          "RBC Instructions" shall mean the RBC Instructions of the National
     Association of Insurance Commissioners in effect as of the date of this
     Agreement.

          "RBC Ratio" shall mean, as of any date of determination, for TIC or
     CLIC, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) that its Adjusted Capital and
     Surplus bears to its authorized control level (as defined in the RBC
     Instructions) as of such date, calculated in accordance with the life
     insurance risk-based capital formula contained in the RBC Instructions, and
     using reserving methodologies and asset classifications consistent with the
     manner in which the Domestic Insurance Companies have, consistent with past
     practice, prepared their statutory financial statements. If such
     calculation is not made on the basis of data contained in annual statutory
     financial statements, premium (as defined in the RBC Instructions) for the
     year-to-date period will be annualized wherever required in such
     calculation.

          "Real Property" shall mean the Owned Real Property and the Leased Real
     Property.

          "Reference Equity" shall mean $7,712,000,000, which is calculated as
     the amount of "Total Rainbow GAAP Equity: Equity (excl. Unrealized)" on the
     December 31, Balance Sheet of $7,480,000,000 plus $232,000,000, as may be
     adjusted pursuant to Sections 6.19 and 6.21.

          "Related Agreements" shall mean each of the Licensing Agreement,
     Transition Services Agreement, Investor Rights Agreement, Distribution
     Agreements and Investment Management Agreement.

          "Requirement of Law" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any Law,
     judgment, order, decree, injunction of (or an agreement with) a
     Governmental Authority

13
 
     (including any memorandum of understanding or similar arrangement with any
     Governmental Authority), in each case binding on that Person or its
     property or assets.

          "Restricted Business" shall mean whether on a group, individual or
     other basis, (i) the issuance or reinsurance of all forms of life insurance
     contracts and annuity contracts (including guaranteed investment contracts,
     funding agreements and structured settlements) worldwide (other than
     Mexico) and (ii) in those jurisdictions outside the United States set forth
     in Section 1.1(l) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, the issuance or
     reinsurance of all forms of accident and health insurance.

          "SAP" shall mean, with respect to any Domestic Insurance Company or
     Domestic Purchaser Insurance Company, the statutory accounting practices,
     rules, principles and procedures prescribed or permitted by its domiciliary
     state.

          "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.

          "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

          "Sellers" shall mean Parent and the Subsidiaries of Parent that own
     the Transferred Shares; it being hereby understood that Parent shall cause
     each of the other Sellers to comply with such Seller's respective
     obligations under this Agreement.

          "Sellers Benefit Plan" shall mean each deferred compensation, fringe
     benefit, severance, termination and bonus or other incentive compensation
     (including any equity or equity-based compensation) plan, program,
     agreement, award or arrangement; each "welfare" plan, fund or program
     (within the meaning of section 3(1) of ERISA); each "pension" plan, fund or
     program (within the meaning of section 3(2) of ERISA); each employment
     agreement or arrangement; and each other employee benefit plan, fund,
     program, agreement, award or arrangement, for the benefit of any current or
     former service provider to the Sellers or any of its Affiliates (other than
     in the capacity as a customer), in each case, (i) that is sponsored,
     maintained or contributed to or required to be contributed to by any of the
     Acquired Subsidiaries, (ii) to which any of the Acquired Subsidiaries is a
     party or (iii) with respect to which any of the Acquired Subsidiaries has
     or could have any liability, directly or indirectly, in each case, whether
     written or oral.

          "Sellers Confidential Information" shall mean all non-public
     information disclosed by any Seller, its Affiliates (other than the
     Acquired Subsidiaries) or their respective representatives to Purchaser, or
     prior to the Closing, to the Acquired Subsidiaries (including information
     disclosed in the course of negotiation of this Agreement or the Related
     Agreements) regarding Sellers and not related to the Business; provided,
     however, that the term Sellers Confidential Information shall not include
     any information independently developed by Purchaser or the Acquired
     Subsidiaries without violating any obligation under this Agreement, so long
     as such information was not obtained from a third party that Purchaser or
     the Acquired Subsidiaries knew or should have known misappropriated or
     otherwise wrongly obtained such knowledge from any Seller or its Affiliates
     (other than the Acquired Subsidiaries).

14
 
          "Sellers Disclosure Letter" shall mean a letter delivered by Parent to
     Purchaser on or before the execution and delivery of this Agreement setting
     forth, among other things, items the disclosure of which is required under
     this Agreement either in response to an express disclosure requirement
     contained in a provision of this Agreement or as an exception to one or
     more of the representations, warranties, covenants or agreements contained
     in this Agreement; provided that the mere inclusion of an item in the
     Sellers Disclosure Letter as an exception to a representation or warranty
     will not be deemed an admission by Sellers that such item (or any
     non-disclosed item or information of comparable or greater significance)
     represents a material exception or fact, event or circumstance or that such
     item has had or is expected to result in a Business Material Adverse
     Effect.

          "Software" shall mean computer software, including all programs,
     applications, tools and databases (whether in object code, source code or
     other form), and all documentation related thereto.

          "SSdRSA" shall mean Siembra Seguros de Retiro S.A.

          "SSdVSA" shall mean Siembra Seguros de Vida S.A.

          "Subsidiary" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person
     of which such first Person (either alone or through or together with any
     other Subsidiary) owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the
     outstanding equity securities or securities carrying a majority of the
     voting power in the election of the board of directors or other governing
     body of such Person. For the avoidance of doubt, the Joint Ventures shall
     not be deemed Subsidiaries of any of the Acquired Subsidiaries.

          "Tax" or "Taxes" shall mean (i) all federal, state, county, local,
     foreign and other taxes, assessments, charges, duties, fees, levies,
     imposts or other similar charges imposed by a Governmental Authority,
     including all income, franchise, profits, capital gains, capital stock,
     transfer, gross receipts, production, pesification, customs, sales, use,
     transfer, service, state guarantee fund assessment, occupation, ad valorem,
     property, excise, severance, windfall profits, premium, stamp, license,
     payroll, employment, social security, workers compensation, unemployment,
     disability, environmental (including all taxes under section 59A of the
     Code), alternative minimum, add-on, value-added, capital taxes, withholding
     and other taxes, assessments, deficiencies, charges, duties, fees, levies,
     imposts, adjustments for inflation or other similar charges of any kind
     whatsoever (whether payable directly, by withholding or pursuant to a
     Closing Agreement and whether or not requiring the filing of a Tax Return),
     and all estimated taxes, deficiency assessments, additions to tax and
     penalties (civil or criminal), additional amounts imposed by any
     Governmental Authority and interest on or in respect of a failure to comply
     with any requirement relating to such taxes or any Tax Return; (ii) any
     liability of any Person for the payment of amounts with respect to payments
     of a type described in clause (i) above as a transferee, successor, or
     payable pursuant to a contractual obligation, and (iii) all reasonable
     out-of-pocket costs, expenses and fees, including reasonable fees for
     attorneys and other outside consultants, incurred in contesting,
     determining, settling or litigating of any Taxes described in clauses (i) -
     (ii) herein.

15
 
          "Tax Attribute" shall mean any net operating loss, net capital loss,
     investment Tax credit, foreign Tax credit, charitable deduction or any
     other credit or Tax attribute, including basis of property, which could
     reduce liability for Taxes including deductions, credits, or alternative
     minimum net operating loss carryforwards related to alternative minimum
     Taxes.

          "Tax Benefit" shall mean the Tax effect of any item of loss, deduction
     or credit or any other item which decreases Taxes paid or payable or
     increases Tax basis, including any interest with respect thereto.

          "Tax Personnel" shall mean Paul Sensale, Richard N. Bush, Seth Cohen,
     the employees that are responsible for Tax matters at each of the Acquired
     Subsidiaries, Parent's chief tax officer and any employee that directly
     reports to Parent's chief tax officer.

          "Tax Proceeding" shall mean any Tax audit, contest, litigation,
     defense or other proceeding with or against any Governmental Authority.

          "Tax Return" shall mean any return, declaration, report, claim for
     refund, information return or similar statement filed or required to be
     filed with respect to any Taxes, including any schedule or attachment
     thereto, and including any amendment thereof, provided, however, that with
     respect to Section 4.18 the term "Tax Return" shall not include any
     Internal Revenue Service Form 5471.

          "Tax Sharing Agreement" shall mean any written or unwritten agreement,
     indemnity or other arrangement for the allocation or payment of Tax
     liabilities or payment for Tax benefits that may exist as of the Closing
     Date with any Acquired Subsidiaries and any Person (other than any
     indemnity provided pursuant to this Agreement).

          "Term Insurance" shall mean life insurance coverage, through term
     insurance products with a primary focus on protection rather than
     investment, for a particular period of time rather than for the life of the
     insured.

          "TIC" shall mean The Travelers Insurance Company.

          "TIC SEC Documents" shall mean any forms, reports, schedules,
     statements, prospectuses and other documents and exhibits required to be
     publicly filed with, or furnished to, the SEC by TIC, on behalf of itself
     or its separate accounts, since January 1, 2002 (as such forms, reports,
     schedules, statements, prospectuses and other documents have been amended
     and supplemented since the time of their respective filing or furnishing).

          "TIN" shall mean The Travelers Indemnity Company.

          "TLAC" shall mean The Travelers Life and Annuity Company.

16
 
          "TLAC SEC Documents" shall mean any forms, reports, schedules,
     statements, prospectuses and other documents and exhibits required to be
     publicly filed with, or furnished to, the SEC by TLAC, on behalf of itself
     or its separate accounts, since January 1, 2002 (as such forms, reports,
     schedules, statements, prospectuses and other documents have been amended
     and supplemented since the time of their respective filing or furnishing).

          "Total Equity" shall mean, as of any date, an amount equal to the
     excess of (x) the total assets of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint
     Ventures, as of such date, over (y) the total liabilities of the Acquired
     Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures, as of such date, in each case, after
     giving effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 6.14 and the
     applicable adjustment, if any, provided for in Section 6.11 of the Sellers
     Disclosure Letter, in each case as shown on a balance sheet of the Acquired
     Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures, prepared using the same accounting
     principles, procedures, policies and methods used in preparing the Audited
     Balance Sheet, including the types of adjustments used in preparing the
     Audited Balance Sheet as set forth in the notes to the Audited Balance
     Sheet; provided, however, that the impact of realized gains and losses
     since December 31, 2004 and unrealized gains and losses, in each case, net
     of any current and Deferred Taxes, and changes in Deferred Taxes shall be
     disregarded for purposes of calculating Total Equity; provided, further,
     Total Equity shall be increased by $20 million in respect of previously
     forecast realized gains.

          "TPC" shall mean The Travelers Property Casualty Corp.

          "Trade Secrets" shall mean all trade secrets and other confidential
     information, including customer lists, forms and types of financial,
     business, scientific, technical, economic, or engineering information or
     know-how, including patterns, plans, compilations, program devices,
     formulas, designs, prototypes, methods, techniques, processes, inventions,
     procedures, programs or codes, whether tangible or intangible, and whether
     or how stored, compiled or memorialized physically, electronically,
     graphically, photographically or in writing.

          "Trademarks" shall mean all registered and unregistered trademarks,
     intent-to-use applications, service marks, trade names, designs, logos,
     emblems, signs or insignia, slogans, Internet domain names, other similar
     designations of source or origin and general intangibles of like nature,
     together with the goodwill symbolized by any of the foregoing.

          "Transition Services Agreement" shall mean the Transition Services
     Agreement to be entered into as of the Closing, with such terms set forth
     in Exhibit G attached hereto and other customary terms.

          "Triton" shall mean Triton Insurance Company.

                                       17
 
          Section 1.2 Index to Defined Terms.  Each of the following terms is
defined on the page of this Agreement set forth opposite such term:

Defined Term                                                                Page
                                                                            ----
                                                                           
Accountant...............................................................    26
Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries...........................................     1
Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries............................................     1
Acquired Intellectual Property...........................................     1
Acquired Subsidiaries....................................................     1
Adjusted Capital and Surplus.............................................     1
Affiliate................................................................     2
AFJP.....................................................................     2
Agent Deferred Compensation Plans........................................    35
Agreement................................................................     1
AHLIC....................................................................     2
Allocation...............................................................    26
Annuity Contract.........................................................     2
Aon Report...............................................................     2
Applicable Argentina Losses..............................................     2
Applicable Argentina Losses Threshold....................................     3
Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries........................................     3
Applicable Contracts.....................................................    37
Applicable Litigation Losses.............................................     3
Applicable LTC Losses....................................................     3
Applicable LTC Losses Threshold..........................................     3
Applicable Other Losses..................................................     4
Applicable Shared Losses.................................................     4
Applicable Stock Price...................................................     4
Applicable TIN Losses....................................................     4
Aristar..................................................................     4
Asset Class..............................................................    72
Asset Classes............................................................    72
Asset FV.................................................................    73
Audited Balance Sheet....................................................    71
Audited Financial Statements.............................................    71
Average Stock Price......................................................     4
Bank Holding Company Act.................................................    47
Business.................................................................     4
Business Confidential Information........................................     5
Business Day.............................................................     5
Business Employee........................................................     5
Business Material Adverse Effect.........................................     5
Cash Consideration.......................................................    24
CGLIC....................................................................     6
CLIC.....................................................................     6
Closing..................................................................    27
Closing Agreement........................................................     6
Closing Date.............................................................    27

18

Closing Date Balance Sheet...............................................    25
Closing Date Purchase Price..............................................    24
Closing RBC Ratio........................................................     6
Code.....................................................................     6
COLI.....................................................................     6
Competitive Business.....................................................    69
Confidentiality Agreements...............................................    58
Continuing Business Employee.............................................    64
Controlling Party........................................................    80
Conveyance Taxes.........................................................    83
Copyrights...............................................................     6
Covered Applicable Argentina Losses......................................     6
Covered Applicable Litigation Losses.....................................     6
Covered Applicable LTC Losses............................................     6
Covered Applicable Other Losses..........................................     6
Covered Applicable Shared Losses.........................................     6
Covered Applicable TIN Losses............................................     6
CP.......................................................................     6
December 31 Balance Sheet................................................     7
Deferred Taxes...........................................................     7
Determination............................................................     7
Distribution Agreements..................................................     7
DOJ......................................................................     7
Domestic Insurance Companies.............................................     7
Domestic Purchaser Insurance Companies...................................     7
Domestic SAP Financial Information.......................................    33
Environmental Laws.......................................................     7
ERISA....................................................................     7
ERISA Affiliate..........................................................     7
Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet.....................................     7
Estimated Net RBC Deficit................................................    70
Estimated RBC Calculation................................................    70
Estimated Total Equity...................................................     8
Excess Reference Equity..................................................    72
Exchange Act.............................................................    43
Existing Shares..........................................................     8
Fair Value...............................................................    72
Federal Funds Rate.......................................................     8
Final Adjustment Payment.................................................    25
Final RBC Calculation....................................................    70
Final Total Equity.......................................................    25
Financial Information....................................................    32
FIRPTA Certificate.......................................................    28
Forms 8023...............................................................    83
FTC......................................................................     8
Fund Board...............................................................    46

19

Fund Board Resolutions...................................................    60
Fund Filings.............................................................    46
Fund Transactions........................................................    61
Funds....................................................................    45
GAAP.....................................................................     8
GECA.....................................................................     8
GECLANY..................................................................     8
GFBSAdCV.................................................................     8
GMDB Reinsurance Agreement...............................................     8
Governmental Authority...................................................     8
Guaranties...............................................................    63
Hazardous Materials......................................................     8
HKJV.....................................................................     8
HSR Act..................................................................    60
Income Statement.........................................................    32
Indemnified Parties......................................................    90
Indemnified Party........................................................    90
Indemnifying Party.......................................................    91
Independent Valuation....................................................    73
In-force Reinsurance Agreements..........................................    44
Insolvency...............................................................    93
Insurance Companies......................................................     9
Insurance Company Financial Information..................................    33
Insurance Contracts......................................................     9
Intellectual Property....................................................     9
International Insurance Companies........................................     9
International Insurance Company Financial Information....................    33
Investment Company Act...................................................    37
Investment Contract......................................................    46
Investment Management Agreement..........................................     9
Investment Pools.........................................................    45
Investor Rights Agreement................................................     9
JJV......................................................................     9
Joint Venture Agreements.................................................     9
Joint Venture Interests..................................................    31
Joint Ventures...........................................................     9
Knowledge................................................................     9
Law......................................................................     9
Lease....................................................................     9
Leased Real Property.....................................................     9
Licensed Intellectual Property...........................................    10
Licensing Agreement......................................................    10
Liens....................................................................    10
Life Insurance Contract..................................................    10
Losses...................................................................    10
LTC Acquisition Agreement................................................    10

20

21

22

Section 1.3 Construction; Absence of Presumption.

          (a) For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) words (including
capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to include the
plural and vice versa and words (including capitalized terms defined herein) of
one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires;
(ii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of similar import
shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this Agreement as a
whole (including all of the Exhibits) and not to any particular provision of
this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Exhibit references are to
the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Exhibits to this Agreement, unless
otherwise specified; (iii) the word "including" and words of similar import when
used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without limitation"; (iv)
"commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any Party of any
material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this
Agreement; (v) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to the
relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified; and (vi) all
references herein to "$" or dollars shall refer to United States dollars, unless
otherwise specified.

          (b) The Parties hereby acknowledge that each Party and its counsel
have reviewed and revised this Agreement and that no rule of construction to the
effect that any ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting Party shall
be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement (including all of the
Exhibits) or any amendments hereto or thereto.

23
 
          (c) The Parties hereby acknowledge and agree that to the extent that
there is a conflict between any (i) general provision of this Agreement and (ii)
provision specifically relating to Tax matters, the terms of the specific Tax
provision shall control.

          Section 1.4 Headings.  The Article and Section headings contained in
this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not
affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II
                                PURCHASE AND SALE

          Section 2.1 Purchase and Sale of the Transferred Shares.  Upon the
terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, at the Closing, the
applicable Seller shall sell, assign, transfer and convey to Purchaser, and
Purchaser shall purchase, acquire and accept from the applicable Seller, the
Transferred Shares owned by the applicable Seller, free and clear of all Liens
and adverse claims.

          Section 2.2 Closing Date Purchase Price.  Subject to Section 2.3, in
consideration for the sale of the Transferred Shares, the aggregate purchase
price payable by Purchaser to Sellers shall consist of (i) cash in an amount
(the "Cash Consideration") equal to (A) eight billion five hundred million
dollars ($8,500,000,000) plus the excess, if any, of three billion dollars
($3,000,000,000) over the Nominal Stock Consideration Amount, plus (B) the
excess, if any, of the Estimated Total Equity over the Reference Equity, minus
(C) the excess, if any, of the Reference Equity over the Estimated Total Equity,
plus (D) the Excess Reference Equity, if any, minus (E) the Shortfall Reference
Equity, if any, minus (F) the Estimated Net RBC Deficit calculated pursuant to
Section 6.18(a), and (ii) such number of validly issued, fully paid and
non-assessable shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share of Purchaser
(together with the associated Rights (as defined in the Purchaser Rights
Agreement), the "Purchaser Common Stock") determined by dividing the Nominal
Stock Consideration Amount by the Applicable Stock Price; provided, however,
that in lieu of part of the foregoing shares of Purchaser Common Stock, Parent
shall have the right to require Purchaser to deliver shares of a new series of
non-voting, convertible participating preferred stock, par value $.01 per share,
of Purchaser (the "Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock") having substantially
the terms set forth in Exhibit H attached hereto and initially being convertible
into the number of shares of Purchaser Common Stock in respect of which the
Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock is to be issued (the "Stock
Consideration," and together with the Cash Consideration, the "Closing Date
Purchase Price"); provided, however, that in no event shall the Stock
Consideration exceed 9.4% of Purchaser's issued and outstanding capital stock;
provided, further, that Parent shall only be entitled to request that shares of
Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock be issued in lieu of Purchaser Common
Stock to the extent that the Stock Consideration, when taken together with the
Existing Shares, exceeds 4.9% of Purchaser's issued and outstanding capital
stock.

          Section 2.3 Closing Date Balance Sheet; Payments on the Settlement
Date.

          (a) (i) Not later than ninety (90) days after the Closing Date or such
other time as is mutually agreed by the Parties, Purchaser shall prepare, or
cause to be prepared, and

24
 
deliver to Parent a balance sheet of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint
Ventures (the "Closing Date Balance Sheet"), as of the close of business on the
Business Day immediately prior to the Closing Date. The Closing Date Balance
Sheet shall be prepared using the accounting principles, procedures, policies
and methods used by Sellers in preparing the Audited Balance Sheet, including
the types of adjustments set forth in the notes to the Audited Balance Sheet.
Based on the Closing Date Balance Sheet, Purchaser shall prepare a certificate
setting forth the calculation of the Total Equity as of the Closing Date (the
"Final Total Equity"). Final Total Equity shall be adjusted so as not to take
into account adjustments to Reference Equity made pursuant to Section 6.21 to
the extent the result would be to duplicate the impact of such prior adjustments
to Reference Equity.

               (ii) In connection with the preparation of the Closing Date
Balance Sheet and the calculation of the Final Total Equity, and during the
period of any dispute within the contemplation of this Section 2.3, Purchaser
shall, and shall cause the Acquired Subsidiaries to, and Sellers shall (A)
provide the other Party and the other Party's authorized representatives with
reasonable access to the relevant books and records, facilities and employees;
and (B) cooperate in good faith with the other Party and its authorized
representatives, including by providing on a timely basis all information
necessary or useful in the calculation of the Final Total Equity.

               (iii) On the fifth Business Day after Purchaser and Parent agree
to the Closing Date Balance Sheet and the Final Total Equity or Purchaser and
Parent receives notice of any final determination of the Closing Date Balance
Sheet and the Final Total Equity (the "Settlement Date"), if the Estimated Total
Equity exceeds the Final Total Equity, Parent shall pay to Purchaser or, if the
Final Total Equity exceeds the Estimated Total Equity, Purchaser shall pay to
Parent, an amount in dollars equal to the absolute value of the difference
between the Estimated Total Equity and the Final Total Equity (the "Final
Adjustment Payment").

          (b) Within twenty (20) days following its receipt of the Closing Date
Balance Sheet, Parent shall deliver to Purchaser either (i) its agreement as to
the calculation of the Closing Date Balance Sheet and the Final Total Equity or
(ii) its dispute thereof, specifying in reasonable detail the nature of its
dispute; provided that Parent may dispute items reflected in the Closing Date
Balance Sheet only on the basis that such amounts were not determined in
accordance with the accounting principles, procedures, policies and methods
employed by Sellers in preparing the Audited Balance Sheet, or on the basis of
arithmetic error. During the thirty (30) days after the delivery of such dispute
notice to Purchaser, Purchaser and Parent shall attempt in good faith to resolve
any such dispute and finally determine the Closing Date Balance Sheet and the
Final Total Equity. If at the end of such thirty (30) day period, Purchaser and
Parent have failed to reach agreement with respect to such dispute, the matter
shall be submitted to Ernst & Young LLP which shall act as arbitrator. If Ernst
& Young LLP is unable to serve, Purchaser and Parent shall jointly select
another nationally recognized accounting firm that is not the independent
auditor for either Parent or Purchaser and is otherwise neutral and impartial;
provided, however, that if Parent and Purchaser are unable to select such other
accounting firm within forty-five (45) days after delivery of written notice of
a disagreement, either party may request the American Arbitration Association to
appoint, within twenty (20) Business Days from the date of such request, an
independent accounting firm meeting the requirements set forth above or a
neutral and impartial certified public accountant with significant relevant
experience.

25
 
The accounting firm or accountant so selected shall be referred to herein as the
"Accountant." The Accountant shall determine all disputed portions of the
Closing Date Balance Sheet, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement. In making such determination, the Accountant may only consider those
items and amounts (and related items and amounts) as to which Purchaser and
Parent have disagreed within the time periods and on the terms specified above
and must resolve the matter in accordance with the terms and provisions of this
Agreement; provided that the determination of the Accountant will neither be
more favorable to Purchaser than reflected in the Closing Date Balance Sheet nor
more favorable to Sellers than reflected in Parent's dispute notice. The
Accountant shall deliver to Parent and Purchaser, as promptly as practicable and
in any event within forty-five (45) days after its appointment, a written report
setting forth the resolution of each disputed matter and its determination of
the Final Total Equity and the Closing Date Balance Sheet, each as determined in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Such report shall be final and
binding upon the Parties to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law and
may be enforced in any court having jurisdiction. The 45-day period for
delivering the written report may be extended by the mutual written consent of
the Parties or by the Accountant for up to an additional thirty (30) days for
good cause shown. Each of Purchaser and Parent shall bear all the fees and costs
incurred by it in connection with this arbitration, except that all fees and
expenses relating to the foregoing work by the Accountant shall be borne by
Purchaser and Parent in inverse proportion as they may prevail on the matters
resolved by the Accountant, which proportionate allocation will also be
determined by the Accountant and be included in the Accountant's written report.

          (c) The Final Adjustment Payment (plus interest on such amount from
the Closing Date up to but excluding the date on which each such payment is made
at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate as of the Closing Date,
calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days and the actual number of days
elapsed), as and when due and payable under this Section 2.3, shall be made by
federal funds wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account(s) of
the Party entitled to receive such payment, which account(s) shall be identified
by Purchaser to Parent or by Parent, on behalf of Sellers, to Purchaser, as the
case may be, not less than two (2) Business Days prior to the date such payment
would be due.

          (d) Each Party shall make available to the other Party its and its
accountants' work papers, schedules and other supporting data as may be
reasonably requested by such Party to enable such Party to verify the amounts
set forth on the Closing Date Balance Sheet, subject to customary
confidentiality and indemnity agreements.

          Section 2.4 Allocation of Purchase Price.

          (a) Purchaser and Parent shall endeavor in good faith to agree, within
one hundred twenty (120) days after the Closing Date, on the allocation of the
total consideration among the Transferred Shares (the "Allocation"). The
Allocation shall be made in accordance with section 1060 of the Code and the
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

          (b) Except as may be required by a Determination, Purchaser and
Sellers agree to act in accordance with the Allocation in the preparation and
filing of all Tax Returns (including filing a Form 8594 with their respective
Federal income tax returns for the taxable year that includes the Closing Date
and any other forms or statements required by the Code,

26
 
Treasury regulations, the Internal Revenue Service or any applicable state or
local or foreign taxing authority) and in the course of any Tax Proceeding.

          (c) In the event that Purchaser and Parent do not agree on the
Allocation, Parent and Purchaser (and their respective Affiliates) shall settle
any such disputes in the manner provided in Section 8.5.

          (d) Purchaser and Parent shall promptly inform one another of any
challenge by any Governmental Agency to any allocation made pursuant to this
Section 2.4 and shall consult and keep one another informed with respect to the
status of, and any discussion, proposal or submission with respect to, such
challenge.

          (e) Section 8.4(d) shall govern all allocations resulting from any
Election and the Allocation shall be consistent with all allocations resulting
from the Election.

                                   ARTICLE III
                                   THE CLOSING

          Section 3.1 Closing.  The closing of the transactions provided for in
this Agreement (the "Closing") shall take place (i) at the offices of Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, Four Times Square, New York, New York,
10036-6522 at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first Business Day of the
month following the date on which the last of the conditions required to be
satisfied or waived pursuant to Article VII is either satisfied or waived (other
than those conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the Closing,
but subject to satisfaction or waiver thereof); provided, however, that the
Closing Date shall be delayed to a day which is the first Business Day of the
month at (x) Purchaser's election, following a period of time not to exceed two
(2) months, if an act of terrorism or war (whether or not declared) affecting
the United States banking or financial markets materially impairs the financing
by Purchaser of the Cash Consideration, (y) Purchaser's election, following a
period of time not to exceed three (3) months following the date on which the
SEC has confirmed that it is not undertaking a review of a registration
statement of Purchaser to be used to offer and sell securities as part of the
financing by Purchaser of the Cash Consideration or that it has completed its
review of such registration statement or (z) Parent's election, until the first
Business Day following the end of the month immediately following the month in
which Parent makes such election, in the event that the expected number of
shares included in the Stock Consideration, when taken together with the
Existing Shares, would constitute an amount that exceeds 9.9% of Purchaser's
outstanding capital stock, or (ii) at such other place, time or date as the
Parties shall agree upon in writing. The date on which the Closing is to occur
is referred to herein as the "Closing Date."

          Section 3.2 Preliminary Information.

          (a) Parent, on behalf of Sellers, shall deliver to Purchaser (i) at
least two (2) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, (A) instructions
designating the account or accounts to which the Cash Consideration shall be
deposited by federal funds wire transfer on the Closing Date and (B) the
Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet and a certificate duly executed by an
appropriate executive officer of Parent setting forth the calculation of the
Estimated Total Equity,

27
 
and (ii) on the Business Day prior to the Closing Date, the (x) amount of Stock
Consideration to be issued in the form of Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock
(if any), (y) name(s) of one or more Sellers or Affiliates thereof to whom the
Stock Consideration shall be issued and in whose name(s) the issuance of the
Stock Consideration shall be registered on Purchaser's transfer books by
Purchaser's transfer agent and (z) amount(s) and form of shares comprising the
Stock Consideration to be issued to each such Seller or Affiliate thereof.

          (b) Purchaser shall notify Parent of the Nominal Stock Consideration
Amount three (3) days prior to the Closing Date. Purchaser shall keep Parent
reasonably informed with respect to the status of its financing and other
activities relating to its determination of the Nominal Stock Consideration
Amount.

          Section 3.3 Sellers' Deliveries at Closing.  At the Closing, Parent,
on behalf of Sellers, shall, or shall cause an Affiliate to, deliver to
Purchaser:

          (a) stock certificates (or similar evidence) representing the
Transferred Shares, duly endorsed in blank or with stock powers executed in
proper form for transfer, and with any required stock transfer stamps affixed
thereto;

          (b) the Distribution Agreements and the selling agreements
contemplated thereby, duly executed;

          (c) the Licensing Agreement, duly executed;

          (d) the Transition Services Agreement, duly executed;

          (e) the Investor Rights Agreement, duly executed;

          (f) the Investment Management Agreement, duly executed;

          (g) the resignations of the officers and directors of the Acquired
Subsidiaries designated by Purchaser in writing at least thirty (30) days prior
to the Closing Date;

          (h) the officer's certificate required pursuant to Section 7.2(d);

          (i) a duly executed certificate of non-foreign status (a "FIRPTA
Certificate") from each of Sellers (or from Parent with respect to any Seller)
in the form and manner that complies with section 1445 of the Code and the
Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that if a FIRPTA
Certificate is unable to be furnished by a Seller (or by Parent with respect to
such Seller), then each Acquired Subsidiary being sold by such Seller must
provide a certificate on which each such Acquired Subsidiary certifies (in the
form and manner required under section 1.1445-2(c)(3) of the Treasury
Regulations) under penalties of perjury that such Acquired Subsidiary does not
constitute a United States real property interest (as defined in section 897(c)
of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder);

          (j) copies (or other evidence) of all valid approvals or
authorizations of, filings or registrations with, or notifications to, all
Governmental Authorities required to be obtained, filed or made by Sellers in
satisfaction of Section 7.1(b);

28
 
          (k) executed and completed copies of Internal Revenue Form 8023 as
provided in Section 8.4; and

          (l) all such additional instruments, documents and certificates
provided for by this Agreement or as may be reasonably requested by Purchaser in
connection with the Closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
and the Related Agreements.

          Section 3.4 Purchaser's Deliveries at Closing.  At the Closing,
Purchaser shall deliver to Parent, on behalf of Sellers, or at Parent's request,
to Sellers directly (in each case consistent with Section 3.2):

          (a) cash in an amount equal to the Cash Consideration to be paid by
Purchaser by federal funds wire transfer of immediately available funds to the
account or accounts designated pursuant to Section 3.2;

          (b) one or more stock certificates representing the Stock
Consideration, registered in accordance with the instructions provided pursuant
to Section 3.2;

          (c) the Distribution Agreements and the selling agreements
contemplated thereby, duly executed;

          (d) the Licensing Agreement, duly executed;

          (e) the Transition Services Agreement, duly executed;

          (f) the Investor Rights Agreement, duly executed;

          (g) the Investment Management Agreement, duly executed;

          (h) the officer's certificate required pursuant to Section 7.3(e);

          (i) copies (or other evidence) of all valid approvals or
authorizations of, filings or registrations with, or notifications to, all
Governmental Authorities required to be obtained, filed or made by Purchaser in
satisfaction of Section 7.1(b);

          (j) all such additional instruments, documents and certificates
provided for by this Agreement or as may be reasonably requested by Parent on
behalf of in connection with the Closing of the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement and the Related Agreements; and

          (k) executed and completed copies of Internal Revenues Form 8023 as
provided in Section 8.4.

          Section 3.5 Proceedings at Closing.  All proceedings to be taken, and
all documents to be executed and delivered by the Parties, at the Closing shall
be deemed to have been taken and executed simultaneously, and, except as
permitted hereunder, no proceedings shall be deemed taken nor any documents
executed or delivered until all have been taken, executed and delivered.

29
 
                                   ARTICLE IV
                    REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF SELLERS

          Except as set forth in the specific section in the Sellers Disclosure
Letter to which such exception or information relates and subject to Section
11.14(a), Parent hereby represents and warrants to Purchaser as set forth below.

          Section 4.1 Organization and Good Standing.  Each Seller, each
Acquired Subsidiary and each of the HKJV and the JJV is a legal entity duly
organized, validly existing and (where applicable) in good standing under the
Laws of its jurisdiction of organization and has all requisite corporate power
and authority to own, operate and lease its assets and to carry on its business
as currently conducted. Each Seller, each Acquired Subsidiary and each of the
HKJV and the JJV is duly qualified to do business and is in good standing
(where applicable) as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction where the
ownership, leasing or operation of its assets or the conduct of its business as
currently conducted requires such qualification, except for those jurisdictions
where the failure to be so qualified or to be in good standing would not,
individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business
Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in Section 4.1 of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter, Sellers have made available to Purchaser prior to the
execution of this Agreement true and complete copies of the certificate of
incorporation and by-laws (or comparable organizational documents) for each
material Acquired Subsidiary and each of HKJV and JJV.

          Section 4.2 Shares in Acquired Subsidiaries; Interests in Joint
Ventures.

          (a) Section 4.2(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter sets forth the
name, jurisdiction of organization or incorporation, and the current ownership
of outstanding shares, partnership interests or other ownership interests of
each Acquired Subsidiary.

          (b) All of the Transferred Shares (i) are beneficially and legally
owned, directly or indirectly, by Sellers, free and clear of all Liens, and (ii)
have been duly authorized, validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable
and have not been issued in violation of any preemptive rights. Except as set
forth in Section 4.2(b) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, all of the outstanding
shares, partnership interests or other ownership interests owned by Sellers,
directly or indirectly, of each Acquired Subsidiary (other than the Transferred
Subsidiaries) (the "Subsidiary Shares") (A) are beneficially and legally owned,
directly or indirectly, by a Transferred Subsidiary, free and clear of all
Liens, and (B) have been duly authorized, validly issued and are fully paid and
non-assessable and have not been issued in violation of any preemptive rights.

          (c) Except as set forth in Section 4.2(c) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, there are no outstanding options, warrants, convertible securities or
other rights (including preemptive rights), agreements, arrangements or
commitments relating to the Transferred Shares or the Subsidiary Shares or
obligating Sellers or any of their Affiliates, at any time or upon the
occurrence of certain events, to offer, issue, sell, transfer, vote or otherwise
dispose of or sell any shares of capital stock of any of the Acquired
Subsidiaries, or to purchase, acquire or redeem any Subsidiary Shares. There are
no bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness having voting

30
 
rights (or convertible into securities having such rights) in or of any of the
Acquired Subsidiaries issued and outstanding.

          (d) Section 4.2(d) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter sets forth the
applicable Acquired Subsidiary which is party to the HKJV and the JJV and the
respective ownership interest of each such Acquired Subsidiary in each such
Joint Venture (the "Joint Venture Interests"). Each of the Joint Venture
Interests (i) is beneficially and legally owned by the Acquired Subsidiary so
identified in Section 4.2(d) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter and (ii) has been
duly authorized, validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.

          Section 4.3 Authorization; Binding Obligations.  Parent and each of
its applicable Affiliates has all necessary corporate power and authority to
make, execute and deliver this Agreement (in the case of Parent) and the Related
Agreements to which it is a party and to perform all of the obligations to be
performed by it hereunder and thereunder. The making, execution, delivery and
performance by Parent and each of its applicable Affiliates of this Agreement
(in the case of Parent) and the Related Agreements and the consummation by them
of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been duly and validly
authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of Parent and its
applicable Affiliates. This Agreement (in the case of Parent) has been and, as
of the Closing Date, the Related Agreements will be, duly and validly executed
and delivered by Parent and each of its applicable Affiliates, and assuming the
due authorization, execution and delivery by Purchaser and each of its
applicable Affiliates (as the case may be), each of this Agreement and the
Related Agreements will constitute the valid, legal and binding obligation of
Parent and each of its applicable Affiliates that is a party thereto,
enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as may be subject to
applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or other similar Laws, now or
hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally
and by legal and equitable limitations on the enforceability of specific
remedies.

          Section 4.4 No Conflicts.  Except as set forth in Section 4.4 of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter, assuming the Sellers Consents are obtained, neither
the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Related Agreements by Parent
and its applicable Affiliates that are a party hereto or thereto, nor the
consummation by Parent and its applicable Affiliates of the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby, will (i) violate, conflict with, result in the
breach of, constitute a default under, be prohibited by, require any additional
approval under or accelerate the performance provided by any (x) terms,
conditions or provisions of the organizational documents of Parent, its
applicable Affiliates or any Acquired Subsidiary, (y) contract to which Parent,
its applicable Affiliates or any Acquired Subsidiary is now a party or by which
it is bound or (z) Requirement of Law applicable to Parent, its applicable
Affiliates or any Acquired Subsidiary, other than, in the case of clauses (y)
and (z), any such violation, conflict, breach, default, prohibition, approval or
acceleration that would not reasonably be expected to have a Business Material
Adverse Effect; or (ii) result in the creation or imposition of any Lien (other
than any Permitted Lien), with or without the giving of notice or the lapse of
time or both, upon the Transferred Shares.

          Section 4.5 Approvals.  There are no notices, reports or other filings
required to be made by Parent or any of its Affiliates with, or consents,
registrations, approvals, permits, licenses, certificates or other
authorizations required to be obtained by Parent or any of its

31
 
Affiliates from, any Governmental Authority or other third party in order for
Sellers to execute or deliver this Agreement or the Related Agreements or to
consummate the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby (collectively, the
"Sellers Consents"), except (i) as set forth in Section 4.5 of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter or (ii) where the failure to make such notices, reports or
other filings or the failure to obtain such consents, registrations, approvals,
permits, licenses, certificates or other authorizations would not reasonably be
expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 4.6 Litigation.  Except as set forth in Section 4.6(a) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter or for ordinary course benefit claims arising under
any Insurance Contract, as of the date hereof, there is no action, suit,
proceeding, claim, arbitration or other litigation pending or any investigation
by any Governmental Authority or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, any action, suit,
proceeding, claim or other litigation or governmental investigation threatened,
against any Seller, any Acquired Subsidiary or any Joint Venture that would
reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Business
Material Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in Section 4.6(b) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter, there are no judgments, injunctions, writs, orders or decrees
binding upon Sellers, any Acquired Subsidiary or any Joint Venture that would
(i) be binding upon Purchaser following consummation of such transactions and
(ii) reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a
Business Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 4.7 Compliance with Requirements of Law.  Except as set forth
in Section 4.7(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, each Acquired Subsidiary and
each Joint Venture is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable
Requirements of Law. Except as set forth in Section 4.7(b) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter or as would not reasonably be expected to have a Business
Material Adverse Effect, since January 31, 2000, no Acquired Subsidiary or Joint
Venture has violated any applicable Requirement of Law, and no Seller or
Acquired Subsidiary has received any written, or, to the Knowledge of Sellers,
oral, notice from (and otherwise does not have any Knowledge of) any
Governmental Authority that alleges any noncompliance (or that any Acquired
Subsidiary or Joint Venture is under any investigation by any such Governmental
Authority for such alleged noncompliance) with any Requirement of Law relating
to the Business. Except as set forth in Section 4.7(c) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, none of the Acquired Subsidiaries have been the subject of any
examination by the United States Federal Reserve. Each of the Acquired
Subsidiaries is in substantial compliance with its own, Parent's and Sellers'
policies, in each case, applicable to its collection, use and disclosure of
personal or private information of customers or consumers.

          Section 4.8 Financial Statements.

          (a) Except as set forth in Section 4.8(a) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, Purchaser has previously been provided with (i) a consolidated income
statement for the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures, after giving
effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 6.14, for the 12 months ended
December 31, 2004 (the "Income Statement"), (ii) the December 31 Balance Sheet
(together with the Income Statement, the "Financial Information"), (iii)
financial statements of each of the Domestic Insurance Companies as of and for
the year ended December 31, 2003 and as of and for each of the quarters ended
March 31, 2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004, prepared in accordance
with applicable SAP (collectively, the

32
 
"Domestic SAP Financial Information") and (iv) a statement of local statutory
capital requirements as of September 30, 2004 for the International Insurance
Companies (the "International Insurance Company Financial Information" and,
together with the Domestic SAP Financial Information, the "Insurance Company
Financial Information").

          (b) The Financial Information has been derived from the accounting
books and records of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures, after
giving effect to the transactions contemplated by Section 6.14, has been
prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject only to normal
recurring year-end adjustments and the absence of notes and except as provided
in the Financial Information. The December 31 Balance Sheet presents fairly in
all material respects the financial position of the Acquired Subsidiaries and
the Joint Ventures, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by
Section 6.14, as at the date thereof, and the Income Statement presents fairly
in all material respects the results of operations of the Acquired Subsidiaries
and the Joint Ventures, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by
Section 6.14, for the period indicated. Except as set forth in Section 4.8(b) of
the Sellers Disclosure Letter, the Domestic SAP Financial Information has been
prepared in all material respects in accordance with SAP. The Domestic SAP
Financial Information presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial
condition of each of the Domestic Insurance Companies and results of operations
of each Domestic Insurance Company as of the dates and periods specified therein
in conformity with SAP. The International Insurance Company Financial
Information reflects in all material respects the statutory capital requirements
of the applicable jurisdictions.

          (c) The reserves for payment of benefits, losses, claims and expenses
under all insurance policies and contracts of each Insurance Company in force as
of the date of the applicable financial statement reflected in, or included
with, in the case of the Domestic Insurance Companies, the SAP Financial
Statements and the GAAP Financial Statements, were determined in accordance with
SAP or GAAP, as applicable, consistently applied throughout the specified period
and, in the case of the International Insurance Subsidiaries, reflected in or
included with the appropriate financial statements filed in their local
jurisdictions, were determined in accordance with the applicable accounting
procedures consistently applied throughout the period, and, in all cases, were
calculated, in all material respects, in accordance with generally accepted
actuarial principles.

          (d) The Business maintains a system of internal accounting controls
sufficient to comply in all material respects with all legal and accounting
requirements applicable to the Business. There are no significant deficiencies
in the internal accounting controls of the Business which would reasonably be
expected to adversely affect in any material respect the ability of the Business
to record, process, summarize and report financial data. Neither Parent nor any
Seller has received or otherwise had or obtained knowledge of any material
complaint, allegation, assertion or claim, whether written or oral, regarding
the accounting or auditing practices, procedures, methodologies or methods,
including any material complaint, allegation, assertion or claim that the
Business has engaged in questionable accounting or auditing practices.

          Section 4.9 Title.  Assuming that the Sellers Consents are filed or
obtained, as the case may be, upon consummation of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement, including the execution and delivery of the documents to be
delivered at the Closing, at the

33
 
Closing, Purchaser shall be vested with good and marketable title in and to the
Transferred Shares, free and clear of all Liens.

          Section 4.10 Sufficiency of Assets.  Subject to Section 4.5, Section
6.14 and except as set forth in Section 4.10 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter,
immediately after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and the Related Agreements, Purchaser, the Acquired Subsidiaries and
the Joint Ventures, taken together, will own, possess, license, lease or have
control of all tangible and intangible assets and contractual rights necessary
to conduct the Business in all material respects as currently conducted and as
the same will be conducted on the Closing Date.

          Section 4.11 Employee Benefit Plans; Employee Matters.

          (a) Section 4.11(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter lists each
material Sellers Benefit Plan (other than any Sellers Benefit Plan that is
sponsored, maintained, contributed to, or required to be contributed to, or
entered into solely by, one or more Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries), with any
Sellers Benefit Plans sponsored by any of the Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries, or
with respect to which an Acquired Domestic Subsidiary has a direct or indirect
liability, clearly identified as such.

          (b) Each of the Sellers Benefit Plans (i) is in compliance with all
applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code, and all other applicable Laws and (ii)
has been administered, operated and managed in accordance with its governing
documents, except where the failure to be in compliance or to have been so
administered, operated or managed would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to result in a Business Material Adverse Effect.

          (c) No liability under Title IV or section 302 of ERISA has been
incurred by Sellers, any Acquired Subsidiaries or any ERISA Affiliate that has
not been satisfied in full, nor do any circumstances exist that could reasonably
be expected to result in any liabilities under (i) Title IV of ERISA, (ii)
section 302 of ERISA or (iii) sections 412, 4971 or 4975 of the Code, in each
case, that would reasonably be expected to be a liability of any of the Acquired
Subsidiaries following the Closing Date.

          (d) The Internal Revenue Service has issued a favorable determination
letter with respect to each of the Sellers Benefit Plans that is intended to be
qualified under section 401(a) of the Code (a "Qualified Plan") and the related
trust that has not been revoked, and to the Knowledge of Sellers, no existing
circumstances and no events have occurred that would adversely affect the
qualified status of any Qualified Plan or the related trust, except as would
not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a
Business Material Adverse Effect.

          (e) There are no pending or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, threatened
claims (other than claims for benefits in the ordinary course), lawsuits or
arbitrations that have been asserted or instituted, and, to the Knowledge of
Sellers, no set of circumstances exists that would reasonably be expected to
give rise to a claim or lawsuit relating to the Sellers Benefit Plans that, in
each case, would reasonably be expected to result in a liability of the Acquired
Subsidiaries to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Department of
Treasury, the Department of

34
 
Labor, any Multi-employer Plan, any Sellers Benefit Plan, any participant in a
Sellers Benefit Plan, or any other Person, except as would not, individually or
in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Business Material
Adverse Effect.

          (f) To the Knowledge of Sellers, no labor organization or group of
employees of any Acquired Subsidiary has made a pending demand for recognition
or certification with respect to the Business Employees and there are no
representation or certification proceedings or petitions seeking a
representation proceeding with respect to the Business Employees presently
pending or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, threatened to be brought or filed, with
the National Labor Relations Board or any other labor relations tribunal or
authority, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be
expected to result in a Business Material Adverse Effect. There are no strikes,
organized work stoppages, organized slowdowns or lockouts pending or threatened
against or involving the Business Employees, except as would not, individually
or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Business Material
Adverse Effect. Except as set forth in Section 4.11(f) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, no Acquired Subsidiary is a party to a collective bargaining agreement
covering any of the Business Employees. None of the Sellers Benefit Plans are
Multi-employer Plans subject to Title IV of ERISA.

          (g) None of Purchaser, its Affiliates or any Acquired Subsidiary shall
have any liability at or after the Closing Date with respect to the Sellers
Benefit Plans (other than liabilities arising under (i) the non-employee agent
deferred compensation plans listed in Section 4.11(g) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter (the "Agent Deferred Compensation Plans"), (ii) the vacation buy-back
plan listed in Section 4.11(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, (iii)
employment agreements of Business Employees who are not on a U.S. payroll and
are not employed by an Acquired Subsidiary if, and to the extent, Purchaser
assumes (by agreement or by Law) such employment agreement in connection with
the employment of such Business Employee or (iv) the Sellers Benefit Plans
(other than employment agreements of Business Employees who are not on a U.S.
payroll and are not employed by an Acquired Subsidiary unless assumed pursuant
to clause (iii) above) that are sponsored, maintained, contributed to, or
required to be contributed to, or entered into solely by one or more Acquired
Foreign Subsidiaries (the liabilities described in clauses (i) through (iv)
above, the "Retained Sellers Benefit Plans Liabilities").

          (h) Sellers and the Acquired Subsidiaries are, and have been, in
compliance with all applicable Laws respecting terms and conditions of
employment and employment practices with respect to each Business Employee, and
there are no pending or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, threatened claims or
lawsuits (including class action lawsuits) that have been asserted or instituted
against any of the Acquired Subsidiaries by or on behalf of the Business
Employees, and, to the Knowledge of Sellers, no set of circumstances exists
which would reasonably be expected to give rise to such a claim or lawsuit
against any of the Acquired Subsidiaries respecting the Business Employees, in
each case, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be
expected to result in a Business Material Adverse Effect.

          (i) As of the Closing Date, none of the Acquired Subsidiaries will be
a party to, maintain, contribute to or have any obligation or liability to any
Person with respect to, any

35
 
COLI policies insuring the lives of any current or former service provider to
the Sellers or any of its Affiliates.

          (j) No more than ten (10) Business Employees employed in the United
States are employed by an entity other than an Acquired Subsidiary.

          Section 4.12 Undisclosed Liabilities.  Except for liabilities or
obligations, to the extent (i) identified in Section 4.12 of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter, (ii) accrued or reserved against in the Financial Information
or the Insurance Company Financial Information or (iii) incurred in the ordinary
course of business consistent with past practice since December 31, 2004, there
are no undisclosed liabilities or obligations relating to the Acquired
Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures of a nature that would be required to be
reflected on or disclosed in the notes to a GAAP balance sheet prepared in a
manner consistent with the Audited Balance Sheet or that, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 4.13 Absence of Certain Changes.  Except for the matters
contemplated by this Agreement or as set forth in Section 4.13 of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter, since December 31, 2004, (i) the Acquired Subsidiaries have
conducted the Business only in the ordinary course of business; and (ii) except
for ordinary course benefit claims arising under policies of insurance or
reinsurance from and after the date of this Agreement, there has not occurred
(A) any change or event that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would
reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect; or (B) prior
to the date hereof, any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or
other distribution (whether in cash, stock or property) with respect to the
equity interests of any Acquired Subsidiary or any Joint Venture, other than to
another wholly owned Acquired Subsidiary. Since January 1, 2002, there has been
no material change by Sellers, the Acquired Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures
in accounting principles or methods materially affecting the Business, except
insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP, SAP or applicable Law.

          Section 4.14 Real Property.

          (a) Section 4.14(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter sets forth a true
and complete list of each material parcel of Owned Real Property.

          (b) Section 4.14(b) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter sets forth a true
and complete list of all material Leased Real Property. Within thirty (30) days
from the date hereof, true, correct and complete copies of the Leases in
Sellers' possession and control will be provided to Purchaser or its
representatives. All of the Leases are in full force and effect and no (i)
Acquired Subsidiary is in default (or has taken or failed to take any action
which with notice, the passage of time, or both, would constitute a default)
under the terms of any Lease and no Acquired Subsidiary has received notice of
default under any Lease which has not been cured within applicable grace periods
and (ii) landlord is in default under any Lease.

          (c) Except as set forth in Section 4.14(c) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, one or more Acquired Subsidiaries hold good and valid title to each
parcel of Owned Real Property

36
 
in fee simple absolute, free and clear of all Liens, except for Permitted Liens,
and is in exclusive possession thereof.

          (d) Except as set forth in Section 4.14(d) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, there are no condemnation proceedings or eminent domain proceedings of
any kind pending or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, threatened with respect to any
portion of the Real Property.

          (e) Section 4.14(b) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter includes all
Leases for premises of 20,000 rentable square feet or more.

          (f) The consent of the landlord or any other Person to the
transactions contemplated under the terms of this Agreement is not required by
the terms of any Lease set forth in Section 4.14(b) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter (or if such consent is required, such consent may not be unreasonably
withheld).

          Section 4.15 Permits.  Except as set forth in Section 4.15 of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter or as would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Business Material Adverse Effect: (i) each
Seller, Acquired Subsidiary and, to the Knowledge of Sellers, each of the Joint
Ventures, possesses all Permits material to the conduct of its business, and all
such Permits are valid and in full force and effect; (ii) no Seller or Acquired
Subsidiary or, to the Knowledge of Sellers, Joint Venture is in default, and no
condition exists that with notice or lapse of time or otherwise would constitute
a default, under such Permit; (iii) no Acquired Subsidiary and no associated
person of any Acquired Subsidiary is subject to a statutory disqualification
that could be the basis for a suspension, revocation or limitation of any
Permit, or is subject to disqualification under section 9(a) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"), in either case,
except where appropriate exemptive orders have been obtained; and (iv) assuming
that the Sellers Consents are filed or obtained, as the case may be, no such
Permit shall be terminated or materially impaired or become terminable, in whole
or in part, as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the Related Agreements.

          Section 4.16 Certain Contracts.

          (a) Except as set forth in Section 4.16(a) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, Sellers have made available true and complete copies of each of the
following contracts of the Acquired Subsidiaries (collectively, the "Applicable
Contracts"): (i) any material agreement for the incurrence of indebtedness by
any Acquired Subsidiary, other than agreements with Affiliates which are to be
terminated pursuant to Section 6.10(b); (ii) any non-competition agreement
(other than any Permit granted by any Governmental Authority) which limits in
any material respect the manner in which, or the localities in which, the
Business, or following the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and the Related Agreements, Purchaser's businesses, is or would be
conducted; (iii) any material joint venture, including the Joint Venture
Agreements, or partnership agreement, other than in respect of joint ventures or
similar investments held in an investment portfolio; (iv) any collective
bargaining agreement; (v) any Contract providing for the indemnification by any
of the Acquired Subsidiaries of any special purpose vehicle or other financing
entity, including off balance sheet entities; (vi) any contract providing for
future payments that are conditioned on, in whole or in part, or that cause

37
 
an event of default as a result of, a change of control or similar event; (vii)
any Contract containing any restrictions on acquisitions of the equity of the
counterparties thereto; (viii) any agency, broker, selling, marketing or similar
Contract involving payments in 2004 in excess of five million dollars
($5,000,000), other than distribution arrangements to which the International
Insurance Companies or the Joint Ventures, on the one hand, and other Affiliates
of Sellers, on the other hand, are parties; (ix) the forms of any Insurance
Contract used in the United States containing rate guarantees, rate caps or rate
escalators; (x) any agreement to which any Acquired Subsidiary is a party
granting or obtaining any right to use or practice any rights under any material
Intellectual Property (other than licenses for off-the-shelf standard
commercially available commercial software), all material information technology
service agreements, material service agreements that involve Intellectual
Property and all material outsourcing agreements; (xi) any agreements set forth
in Section 1.1(e) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter and (xii) other Contracts not
listed above granting material exclusive rights. Except as would not,
individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Business
Material Adverse Effect, each Applicable Contract, is the legal, valid and
binding obligation of an Acquired Subsidiary that is a party thereto and, to the
Knowledge of Sellers, of each other party thereto, enforceable in accordance
with its terms subject to bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other Laws relating to or affecting the
rights of creditors in general and by legal and equitable limitations on the
enforceability of specific remedies. Except as set forth in Section 4.16(a)(i)
of the Sellers Disclosure Letter or as would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect,
neither any Seller nor any Acquired Subsidiary that is a party thereto nor, to
the Knowledge of Sellers, any other party, is in violation or default of any
term of any such Applicable Contract and no condition or event exists which with
the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both would constitute a
violation or default by a Seller or any Acquired Subsidiary, as the case may be,
or any other party thereto or permit the termination, modification, cancellation
or acceleration of performance of the obligations of a Seller or any Acquired
Subsidiary, as the case may be, or any other party to the Applicable Contract.

          (b) To the extent required by Law, (i) except as set forth in Section
4.16(b)(i) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, all Insurance Contracts in force
and effect as of the date hereof are in compliance with applicable Law in all
material respects on forms approved by insurance regulatory authorities of the
jurisdiction in which they were issued or on forms which have been filed with
and not objected to by such authorities within the period provided for
objection, and (ii) in all material respects, any premium rates and reinsurance
agreements with respect to such Insurance Contracts required to be filed with or
approved by such applicable insurance regulatory authorities have been so filed
or approved.

          Section 4.17 Intellectual Property.

          (a) Section 4.17(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of
the date hereof, a complete list of all Owned Intellectual Property that is the
subject of an application or registration.

          (b) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Business
Material Adverse Effect, an Acquired Subsidiary owns all Owned Intellectual
Property and has a valid

38
 
right to use all Licensed Intellectual Property, free and clear of all Liens,
other than Permitted Liens.

          (c) Except as set forth in Section 4.17(c) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, (i) there is no litigation pending or, to the Knowledge of Sellers,
threatened against any Seller or Acquired Subsidiary that involves a claim (A)
alleging that the operation of the Business infringes, misappropriates, dilutes
or otherwise violates a third party's Intellectual Property rights, or (B)
challenging the ownership, use, validity, enforceability or registrability of
any Acquired Intellectual Property and (ii) there is no basis for a claim of
infringement, misappropriation, dilution or other violation of a third party's
Intellectual Property rights, whether the claim has been asserted or is
unasserted, regarding any of the Owned Intellectual Property and, to the
Knowledge of Sellers, there is no basis for a claim of infringement,
misappropriation, dilution or other violation of a third party's Intellectual
Property rights, whether the claim has been asserted or is unasserted, regarding
any of the Licensed Intellectual Property.

          (d) Except as set forth in Section 4.17(d) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, no Seller or Affiliate has brought or, to the Knowledge of Sellers,
threatened a claim against any third party (A) alleging infringement,
misappropriation, dilution or other violation of (i) any material Owned
Intellectual Property, or (ii) except as would not reasonably be expected to
have a Business Material Adverse Effect on any non-material Owned Intellectual
Property, or (B) challenging any such third party's ownership or use of, or the
validity, enforceability or registrability of, such third party's Intellectual
Property, and, to the Knowledge of Sellers, there is no basis for a claim
regarding any of the foregoing.

          (e) Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Business
Material Adverse Effect, to the Knowledge of Sellers, no Acquired Subsidiary is
in material breach of any agreement for the provision or use of Licensed
Intellectual Property.

          (f) Each Acquired Subsidiary has established and maintains a
commercially reasonable security program, and is in substantial compliance with
such program.

          (g) Each Acquired Subsidiary utilizes commercially available
anti-virus software in accordance with industry standards.

          Section 4.18 Taxes.  Any representations with respect to the Joint
Ventures in this Section 4.18 are made to the actual knowledge of the Tax
Personnel. Except as set forth in Section 4.18 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter:

          (a) (i) All material Tax Returns required to have been filed by, or
with respect to any of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures have
been filed on a timely basis in the manner prescribed by Law and (ii) all
material Taxes shown to be due on such Tax Returns or otherwise due have been
paid. All such Tax Returns were and continue to be correct and complete, except
where the failure of such Tax Returns to be correct and complete is not material
and with respect to any taxable period for which such Tax Returns have not yet
been filed, or for which Taxes are not yet due or owing, the Acquired
Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures have made due and sufficient current accruals
for any such material Taxes on the December 31 Balance

39
 
Sheet in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles which are
used in the applicable jurisdiction of each such applicable Acquired Subsidiary
and Joint Venture.

          (b) (i) No written notice has been received of any material
deficiencies for Taxes claimed, proposed or assessed by any Governmental
Authority with respect to the Acquired Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures for
which Sellers or any of their Affiliates may have any liability; (ii) there are
no pending, current or, proposed in writing audits, suits, proceedings,
investigations, claims or administrative proceedings for or relating to any
liability in respect of any such Taxes; and (iii) no Closing Agreement pursuant
to section 7121 of the Code (or any similar provision of state, local or foreign
Law) has been entered into by or with respect to any of the Acquired
Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures.

          (c) The Acquired Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures have complied in all
material respects with all applicable Law relating to the payment and
withholding of Taxes and each of them has withheld and paid all material Taxes
required to have been withheld and paid in connection with amounts paid or owing
to any Employee, independent contractor, creditor, stockholder, foreign person,
or other third party.

          (d) There are no proposed reassessments of any property owned by the
Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures or any other proposals with respect to
an assessment of any such property that could increase the amount of any
material Tax to which the Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures could be
subject to after the Closing Date.

          (e) There are no material Liens for Taxes upon the assets or
properties of the Acquired Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures except for
statutory Liens for Taxes not yet due. There are no outstanding waivers or
comparable consents regarding the application of the statute of limitations with
respect to any Taxes or Tax Returns of the Acquired Subsidiaries or the Joint
Ventures. None of the Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures has requested an
extension of time within which to file any Tax Return in respect of any taxable
period for which such Tax Return has not since been filed.

          (f) Since the date of the December 31 Balance Sheet, none of the
Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures has incurred any material liability for
Taxes other than in the ordinary course of business or as a result of the
Elections under section 338(h)(10) of the Code.

          (g) Each Acquired Subsidiary or Joint Venture that is a partnership or
limited liability company has been treated by Parent and its Affiliates as a
partnership or disregarded entity for United States federal income tax purposes
since its formation.

          (h) The federal income Tax Returns of the Acquired Domestic
Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures for all tax years through 1998 (i) have been
examined and the tax years closed by the Internal Revenue Service or (ii) the
statute of limitations with respect to all such Tax Returns has expired.

          (i) Sellers (and to the extent necessary Parent) are eligible to join
with Purchaser in making the election provided for by section 338(h)(10) of the
Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to each of
the Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries that is treated as a corporation for United
States federal income tax purposes.

40
 
          (j) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, no written claim has
ever been made by a Governmental Authority in a jurisdiction where an Acquired
Subsidiary or Joint Venture does not file Tax Returns that such Acquired
Subsidiary or Joint Venture is or may be subject to taxation by that
jurisdiction and to the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel there is no basis
for any such jurisdiction to assert that any Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint
Ventures are or may be subject to taxation in such jurisdiction.

          (k) Except as required by applicable Law, since December 31, 2004,
none of the Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures has: (A) made or changed any
election or method of accounting concerning any material Taxes, (B) filed any
amended Tax Return, (C) settled any Tax Claim or assessment or (D) surrendered
any right to claim a refund of any Taxes, in each case, to the extent such
action would materially affect the Taxes or any Tax Benefit of such Acquired
Subsidiary or Joint Venture following the Closing Date.

          (l) There are no Tax Rulings, requests for Tax Rulings, or Closing
Agreements relating to the Acquired Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures, or Parent's
United States federal income tax consolidated group which could have a material
adverse effect on Purchaser (or any Affiliate thereof including the Acquired
Subsidiaries') liability for Taxes for any period (or portion thereof)
commencing after the Closing Date.

          (m) None of the Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures, as a result
of any agreement with a Governmental Authority, will be required to include any
material item of income in, or exclude any material Tax credit or item of
deduction from, any taxable period beginning on or after the Closing Date.

          (n) No indebtedness of the Acquired Subsidiaries is "corporate
acquisition indebtedness" within the meaning of section 279(b) of the Code.

          (o) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, none of the assets
or liabilities of any of the Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures is a debt
obligation that (A) is a "registration-required obligation" as defined in
section 163(f)(2) of the Code; (B) is an "applicable high yield discount
obligation" as defined in section 163(i)(1) of the Code; or (C) is a
"disqualified debt instrument" as defined in section 163(b)(2) of the Code.

          (p) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, none of the Acquired
Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures has engaged in a trade or business, had a
permanent establishment (within the meaning of an applicable tax treaty or local
Law) or has otherwise become subject to Tax in a jurisdiction other than the
country of its formation, and none of the Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries has
foreign branches.

          (q) Tax reserves have been computed and maintained in the manner
required under sections 807, 832, 954 and 846 of the Code.

          (r) Each Insurance Company that issues, assumes, has modified,
exchanged, administers, markets or sells Life Insurance Contracts satisfies the
definition of a "life insurance company" for purposes of the Code and all
reinsurance contracts entered into by such life insurance companies are
insurance contracts for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

41
 
          (s) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, the Acquired
Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures will not have as of the Closing Date any material
liability for Taxes of any other Person (i) as a transferee or successor, (ii)
by operation of applicable Law or (iii) otherwise.

          (t) No power of attorney currently in force has been granted with
respect to any matter relating to the Taxes of the Acquired Subsidiaries or the
Joint Ventures, which will be in force for any taxable period beginning after
the Closing Date.

          (u) To the actual knowledge of Richard N. Bush, none of the Acquired
Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures nor any Sellers with respect to any of the
Acquired Subsidiaries have participated, within the meaning of Treasury
Regulation Section 1.6011-4(c), or have been a "material advisor" or "promoter"
(as those terms are defined in section 6111 and 6112 of the Code and the
Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder) in (i) any "reportable transaction"
within the meaning of section 6011 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated thereunder other than any "reportable transaction" with respect to
the Acquired Subsidiaries, the Joint Ventures or Sellers that will be reported
on the United States consolidated federal income Tax Return of Parent for the
taxable years ending on December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005, (ii) any
"confidential corporate tax shelter" within the meaning of section 6111 of the
Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, or (iii) any
"potentially abusive tax shelter" within the meaning of section 6112 of the Code
and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.

          (v) None of the Acquired Subsidiaries is (i) obligated to make any
payments, or (ii) a party to any agreement, contract or arrangement that under
certain circumstances could obligate it to make any payments that could result,
separately or in the aggregate, in the payment of any payments that are subject
to section 280G of the Code solely as a result of the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement.

          (w) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, no Partnership has
in effect a valid election pursuant to section 754 of the Code, which election
will remain in effect for the taxable year of such Partnership in which the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement occur.

          (x) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, for federal income
tax purposes, none of the allocations of income, gain, loss or deductions in
respect of any Partnership for the respective Partnership taxable years in which
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement occur (or prior taxable years)
are (or were) required to be determined under section 704(c) of the Code or the
principles thereof.

          (y) To the actual knowledge of the Tax Personnel, none of the
transactions contemplated in this Agreement will cause a termination of any
Partnership pursuant to section 708(b) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated thereunder.

          Section 4.19 Affiliate Transactions.  Except (i) as set forth in
Section 4.19(i) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, (ii) for transactions which
are on customary third party terms, (iii) for services, products or matters
which are to be continued or provided by the Related

42
 
Agreements or (iv) where the transaction in question will be terminated pursuant
to Section 6.10(b) on or prior to the Closing Date, there are no outstanding
amounts payable to, or receivable from, or advances by Sellers or any of their
Subsidiaries (other than an Acquired Subsidiary) to, and neither Sellers nor any
of their Subsidiaries is otherwise a creditor or debtor to any of the Acquired
Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures, and no Seller nor any Subsidiary of any
Seller (other than an Acquired Subsidiary) is a party to any transaction or
agreement with any of the Acquired Subsidiaries or the Joint Ventures.

          Section 4.20 Regulatory Filings.

          (a) TIC has filed with, or furnished to, the SEC all required TIC SEC
Documents. As of their respective dates, the TIC SEC Documents complied in all
material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or the Investment Company
Act, as the case may be, applicable to such TIC SEC Documents, and none of the
TIC SEC Documents contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted
to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to
make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were
made, not misleading, unless such information contained in any TIC SEC Document
has been corrected by a later-filed TIC SEC Document. The financial statements
of TIC and any of its separate accounts included in the TIC SEC Documents comply
as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and
the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements,
as permitted by Form 10-Q) applied on a consistent basis during the periods
involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly present in
all material respects the financial position of TIC and its consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their
operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject, in the case of
unaudited statements, to the absence of footnote disclosure and to normal and
recurring year-end audit adjustments).

          (b) TLAC has filed with, or furnished to, the SEC all required TLAC
SEC Documents. As of their respective dates, the required TLAC SEC Documents
complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act,
the Exchange Act or the Investment Company Act, and related regulations, as the
case may be, applicable to such TLAC SEC Documents, and none of the TLAC SEC
Documents contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state
a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the
statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading, unless such information contained in any TLAC SEC Document has
been corrected by a later-filed TLAC SEC Document. The financial statements of
TLAC and any of its separate accounts included in the TLAC SEC Documents comply
as to form in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and
the published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements,
as permitted by Form 10-Q) applied on a consistent basis during the periods
involved (except as may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly present in
all material respects the financial position of TLAC and its consolidated
Subsidiaries as of the dates thereof and the consolidated results of their
operations and cash flows for the periods then ended (subject, in the case of
unaudited statements, to the absence of footnote disclosure and to normal and
recurring year-end audit adjustments).

43
 
          (c) Except as set forth in Section 4.20(c) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter and except for filings with the SEC which are the subject of Section
4.20(a) and (b), all reports, statements, documents, registrations, filings or
submissions required to be filed by any Acquired Subsidiary or any Joint Venture
with any Governmental Authority (the "Other Reports"), have been filed, except
where the failure to make such filings would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect,
and the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures have timely paid all
material fees due and payable in connection therewith. Except as set forth in
Section 4.20(c) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, all the Other Reports were
true and complete in all material respects, and were in compliance with Law when
filed or as amended or supplemented, and no deficiencies have been asserted in
writing by any such Governmental Authority with respect to any Other Report that
have not been remedied, except for any non-compliance or deficiencies which
would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a
Business Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 4.21 Reinsurance.  Section 4.21 of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter sets forth a true and complete list as of the date of this Agreement of
each material (i) reinsurance agreement (ceded or assumed) currently in force
and effect to which any of the Acquired Subsidiaries or any of the Joint
Ventures is a party (the "In-force Reinsurance Agreements"), (ii) reinsurance
agreement (ceded or assumed) with respect to previously issued business to which
any of the Acquired Subsidiaries or any of the Joint Ventures is a party and
(iii) reinsurance trust agreement or letter of credit required under SAP to
claim credit in the Domestic SAP Financial Information for any agreement
described in clause (i) above. Except as would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a Business Material Adverse
Effect, each In-force Reinsurance Agreement is the legal, valid and binding
obligation of an Acquired Subsidiary that is a party thereto and, to the
Knowledge of Sellers, of each other party thereto, enforceable in accordance
with its terms subject to bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, reorganization,
moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other Laws relating to or affecting the
rights of creditors in general and by legal and equitable limitations on the
enforceability of specific remedies. The GMDB Reinsurance Agreement does not
contain any provisions providing that CGLIC may terminate such agreement by
reason of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

          Section 4.22 Portfolio Investments.  All investments included in the
investment portfolios of each of the Insurance Companies as of the date of this
Agreement comply with all Laws applicable to the Insurance Companies, except as
would not reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.
Except as set forth in Section 4.22 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, as of
December 31, 2004, none of the material investments included in the investment
portfolios of the Insurance Companies is in material default in the payment of
principal or interest or dividends.

          Section 4.23 Acquisition of Shares for Investment.  Sellers are
acquiring the shares comprising the Stock Consideration for investment and not
with a view toward sale in connection with any distribution thereof in violation
of the Securities Act. Parent hereby acknowledges and agrees that the shares
comprising the Stock Consideration may not be sold, transferred, offered for
sale, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of without registration under
the Securities Act, except pursuant to an exemption from such registration
available under

44
 
such Act, and without compliance with state and foreign securities Laws, in each
case, to the extent applicable.

          Section 4.24 Environmental Matters.  Except as set forth in Section
4.24 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter: (i) each Acquired Subsidiary has operated
the Business in compliance in all material respects with all applicable material
Environmental Laws and Permits required thereunder; (ii) there are no present
events, conditions or circumstances associated with the Business that would
reasonably be expected to result in any action or claim against the Acquired
Subsidiaries under applicable Environmental Laws that would reasonably be
expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect, nor has any Acquired
Subsidiary or any Seller received any notice that any Owned Real Property or
Leased Real Property is in violation of any Environmental Laws or that such
Acquired Subsidiary is responsible (or potentially responsible) for the
investigation, cleanup, monitoring or other remediation of any Hazardous
Materials on, at or under any Owned Real Property or Leased Real Property that
would reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect; and
(iii) each Acquired Subsidiary has not assumed or retained, contractually or by
operation of law, any liability under Environmental Laws or related to Hazardous
Materials that would reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse
Effect.

          Section 4.25 Brokers.  No broker, investment banker, financial advisor
or other Person is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or
similar fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Sellers, except
those for which Sellers will be solely responsible.

          Section 4.26 Registered Management Investment Companies.

          (a) Section 4.26(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter contains a list,
as of the date hereof, of all of the investment companies registered under the
Investment Company Act for which any Acquired Subsidiary acts as investment
adviser or sub-adviser, together with any such investment company for which any
Acquired Subsidiary acts as an investment adviser between the date hereof and
the Closing (the "Funds") and each pooled investment vehicle, (other than the
Funds) for which any Acquired Subsidiary acts as investment adviser,
administrator, sub-adviser, commodity pool operator or commodity trading
adviser, or for which it acts as a general partner or managing member, together
with any such vehicle (other than a fund) for which an Acquired Subsidiary acts
in such capacity between the date hereof and the Closing (the "Investment
Pools"). Each Fund is, and at all times as required under the Investment Company
Act, has been, duly registered with the SEC as an investment company under the
Investment Company Act. Each Investment Pool is not an "investment company"
within the meaning of, or is otherwise exempt from registration under, the
Investment Company Act.

          (b) Except as set forth in Section 4.26(b) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, each of the Funds has at all times as required under the Securities Act
and any other applicable securities or blue sky Laws, duly registered all
securities of which it is the issuer under the Securities Act and such other
Laws, and each Investment Pool has offered and sold its securities pursuant to
an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act
and has duly registered or qualified its securities in accordance with, or has
offered and sold such securities pursuant to an available exemption under, all
applicable securities or blue sky Laws of

45
 
any jurisdiction, except for such failure as would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.
Each of the Funds has duly filed all registration statements, prospectuses,
financial statements and any other documents required to be filed with
applicable Governmental Authorities or delivered to Fund shareholders ("Fund
Filings"), and any amendments thereto, in accordance with applicable Laws,
except for instances of noncompliance which would not, individually or in the
aggregate, have a Business Material Adverse Effect. None of the Fund Filings
filed or used since January 1, 2002 contained, or will contain, any untrue
statement of material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be
stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the
circumstances under which they were or are made, not misleading. Except as set
forth in Section 4.26(b) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, each of the financial
statements contained in or incorporated by reference into the Fund Filings
comply in all material respects with applicable accounting requirements and the
published rules and regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been
prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the
periods involved and fairly presents in all material respects the financial
position of the entity or entities to which it relates as of its date, except in
each case as may be noted therein, subject to normal year end audit adjustments
in the case of unaudited statements.

          (c) Each of the Funds is governed by a board of directors or trustees
or, in the case of Funds that are managed separate accounts, a board of managers
(each, a "Fund Board") at least 75% of whose members are not "interested
persons" (as defined in the Investment Company Act) of the investment adviser to
such Fund.

          (d) Each Fund, other than the Funds that are managed separate
accounts, has elected to qualify and, for all taxable years with respect to
which the applicable statute of limitations (including any extensions) has not
expired, has continuously qualified to be treated as a "regulated investment
company" under Subchapter M of the Code (a "RIC") and has continuously been
eligible to compute, and has for each such taxable year computed, its federal
income tax under section 852 of the Code. Each such Fund has timely filed in the
manner prescribed by Law all material Tax Returns required to have been filed
by, or with respect to, any Fund.

          (e) (i) Each contract or agreement pursuant to which an Acquired
Subsidiary renders investment advisory or management services, administration,
transfer agency, pricing and book-keeping or distribution services to any Fund,
Investment Pool or non-Fund client (each, an "Investment Contract") and any
subsequent renewal has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by an
Acquired Subsidiary and, if applicable, each Fund, or Investment Pool party
thereto in accordance with applicable Law, is when executed a valid and binding
obligation of each party thereto that is an Acquired Subsidiary, Fund or
Investment Pool, and currently is, or will be, as applicable, in full force and
effect with respect to such parties; and (ii) to the Knowledge of Sellers, each
party to each such agreement is in compliance therewith, and no event has
occurred or condition exists that with notice or the passage of time or both
would constitute such a default, except in the case of each of clauses (i) and
(ii) above, for such exceptions as would not, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.

46
 
          (f) The accounts of each investment advisory client (other than a
Fund) that is subject to ERISA that are managed by an Acquired Subsidiary have
been managed by an Acquired Subsidiary in compliance with all the applicable
requirements of ERISA, except (i) as set forth in Section 4.26(f) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter or (ii) for any failure that would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.

          (g) Other than information or statements provided by Purchaser or its
Affiliates in connection with the Sellers Consents, each of (i) the proxy
solicitation materials to be distributed to the shareholders of each Fund and
(ii) the materials provided to the Fund Boards in connection with the Sellers
Consents will be complete in all material respects and will not contain (at the
time such materials or information is distributed, filed or provided, as the
case may be) any statement which, at the time and in light of the circumstances
under which it is made, is false or misleading with respect to any material
fact, and will not omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make
the statements therein not false or misleading or (with respect to information
included in proxy statements) necessary to correct any statement or any earlier
communication with respect to the solicitation of a proxy for the same meeting
or subject matter which has become false or misleading.

          Section 4.27 Insurance.  The Acquired Subsidiaries, the Joint Ventures
and, with respect to the Business, Sellers, maintain insurance policies and
performance bonds on their respective properties and assets, and with respect to
their employees and operations, with reputable insurance carriers, and such
insurance policies provide reasonable coverage for risk incident to the Business
and the respective properties and assets of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the
Joint Ventures and are in character and amounts comparable to that carried by
Persons engaged in similar businesses in similar jurisdictions and subject to
the same or similar perils or hazards, as part of organizations of comparable
size. To the Knowledge of Sellers, Sellers, the Acquired Subsidiaries and the
Joint Ventures are not in default under any such insurance policies and have
paid all premiums owed thereunder, and, except as would not be reasonably
expected to result in a Business Material Adverse Effect, since January 1, 2002,
no claims for coverage thereunder have been denied.

          Section 4.28 Bank Holding Company Act.  All of the activities of the
Acquired Subsidiaries are financial in nature within the meaning of the Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "Bank Holding Company Act").

          Section 4.29 No Parent Stockholder Vote Required.  No vote or other
action of the stockholders of Parent is required pursuant to any Requirement of
Law, the organizational documents of Parent or otherwise in order for Parent to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related
Agreements.

          Section 4.30 Property and Casualty Business.  No Domestic Insurance
Company has any PC Liabilities other than those subject to one hundred percent
(100%) reinsurance by TIN and indemnification by TPC. Parent has prior to the
date hereof provided Purchaser with true and correct copies of all agreements
pursuant to which the Accident Department of TIC reinsured all of its PC
Liabilities for workers' compensation policies to TIN. Such agreements are valid
and binding and in full force and effect. Neither TIC nor, to the

47
 
Knowledge of Sellers, TIN is, or is claimed to be, in breach of any such
agreements. There are no provisions in such agreements or any other agreement or
understanding, written or oral, that would permit TIN to cancel, commute or
terminate such reinsurance without the prior consent of TIC.

                                   ARTICLE V
                   REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PURCHASER

          Except as set forth in the specific section in the Purchaser
Disclosure Letter to which such exception or information relates and subject to
Section 11.14(b), Purchaser hereby represents and warrants to Sellers as set
forth below.

          Section 5.1 Organization and Good Standing.  Each of Purchaser and
each of its Significant Subsidiaries (as defined in Regulation S-X) is a legal
entity duly organized, validly existing and (where applicable) in good standing
under the Laws of its jurisdiction of organization and has all requisite
corporate power and authority to own, operate and lease its assets and, as
applicable, the Transferred Shares and to carry on its business and, as
applicable, the Business, each as currently conducted, and, as of the Closing
Date, will be duly qualified to do business and will be in good standing (where
applicable) as a foreign corporation in each jurisdiction where the ownership,
leasing or operation of the Transferred Shares or the conduct of the Business
requires such qualification, except for those jurisdictions where the failure to
be so qualified or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 5.2 Capital Structure.  As of December 31, 2004, the
authorized capital stock of Purchaser consists of 3,000,000,000 shares of
Purchaser Common Stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.01
per share (the "Purchaser Preferred Stock"). At the close of business on January
19, 2005, (i) 786,766,664 shares of Purchaser Common Stock were issued and
outstanding, (ii) 52,909,655 shares of Purchaser Common Stock were held by
Purchaser in its treasury, (iii) 36,218,214 shares of Purchaser Common Stock
were reserved for issuance (including shares underlying outstanding stock
options and shares available for future grant) pursuant to the incentive plans
listed in Section 5.2 of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter and (iv) no shares of
Purchaser Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding. Except as set forth above
in this Section 5.2 or in Section 5.2 of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter, at the
close of business on January 19, 2005, no (x) shares of capital stock or other
voting securities of Purchaser were issued, reserved for issuance or outstanding
and (y) agreements regarding the rights of holders of capital stock of
Purchaser, including voting or registration rights, are in effect. All shares of
Purchaser Common Stock to be issued in accordance with this Agreement will be,
when issued, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable,
free and clear of all Liens, except for Liens imposed by Sellers, their
Affiliates or their creditors.

          Section 5.3 Authorization; Binding Obligations.  Purchaser has all
necessary corporate power and authority to make, execute and deliver this
Agreement and the Related Agreements and to perform all of the obligations to be
performed by it hereunder and thereunder. The making, execution, delivery and
performance by Purchaser of this Agreement and the Related Agreements and the
consummation by Purchaser of the transactions contemplated

48
 
hereby and thereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate action on the part of Purchaser. This Agreement has been, and, as of
the Closing Date, the Related Agreements will be, duly and validly executed and
delivered by Purchaser, and assuming the due authorization, execution and
delivery by Sellers that are party thereto, each of this Agreement and the
Related Agreements will constitute the valid, legal and binding obligation of
Purchaser, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as may be
subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium or other similar Laws,
now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the rights of creditors
generally and by legal and equitable limitations on the enforceability of
specific remedies.

          Section 5.4 No Conflicts.  Assuming the Purchaser Consents are
obtained, neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Related
Agreements by Purchaser, nor the consummation by Purchaser of the transactions
contemplated hereby or thereby, will violate, conflict with, result in the
breach of, constitute a default under, be prohibited by, require any additional
approval under or accelerate the performance provided by any (x) terms,
conditions or provisions of Purchaser's organizational documents or by-laws, (y)
contract or (z) Requirements of Law applicable to Purchaser, other than, in the
case of clauses (y) and (z), any such violation, conflict, breach, default,
prohibition, approval or acceleration that would not reasonably be expected to
have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect. There are no restrictions on
Purchaser's ability to issue and deliver to Parent the Stock Consideration as
provided in Section 2.2.

          Section 5.5 Approvals.  There are no notices, reports or other filings
required to be made by Purchaser with, or consents, registrations, approvals,
permits or other authorizations required to be obtained by Purchaser or any of
its Affiliates from, any Governmental Authority or other third party in order
for Purchaser or any of its Affiliates to execute or deliver this Agreement or
the Related Agreements or to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby or
thereby (collectively, the "Purchaser Consents"), except (i) as set forth in
Section 5.5 of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter or (ii) where the failure to make
such notices, reports or other filings or the failure to obtain such consents,
registrations, approvals, permits or other authorizations would not reasonably
be expected to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 5.6 Litigation.  Except as set forth in Section 5.6(a) of the
Purchaser Disclosure Letter or ordinary course benefit claims arising under any
Insurance Contract, as of the date hereof, there is no action, suit, proceeding,
claim, arbitration or other litigation pending or any investigation by any
Governmental Authority or to the Knowledge of Purchaser, any action, suit,
proceeding, claim or other litigation or governmental investigation threatened,
against Purchaser or any of its Affiliates that would reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.
Except as set forth in Section 5.6(b) of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter, there
are no judgments, injunctions, writs, orders or decrees binding upon Purchaser
or any of its Affiliates that would reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser
Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 5.7 Compliance with Requirements of Law.  Except as set forth
in Section 5.7(a) of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter, Purchaser is in compliance
in all material respects with all applicable Requirements of Law relating to, or
materially affecting, its

49
 
businesses. Except as set forth in Section 5.7(b) of the Purchaser Disclosure
Letter or as would not reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser Material
Adverse Effect, since January 31, 2000, Purchaser has not violated any
Requirement of Law relating to its businesses, and has not received any written,
or, to the Knowledge of Purchaser, oral, notice from (and otherwise does not
have any Knowledge of) any Governmental Authority that alleges any noncompliance
(or that Purchaser or any of its Affiliates is under any investigation by any
such Governmental Authority for such alleged noncompliance) with any Requirement
of Law relating to Purchaser's businesses, except as may be required under the
Securities Act.

          Section 5.8 SEC Filings and Financial Statements.

          (a) Purchaser has filed with, or furnished to, the SEC all required
Purchaser SEC Documents. As of their respective dates, the Purchaser SEC
Documents complied in all material respects with the requirements of the
Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, applicable to such
Purchaser SEC Documents, and none of the Purchaser SEC Documents contained any
untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required
to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, unless
such information contained in any Purchaser SEC Document has been corrected by a
later-filed Purchaser SEC Document. The financial statements of Purchaser
included in the Purchaser SEC Documents comply as to form in all material
respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and
regulations of the SEC with respect thereto, have been prepared in accordance
with GAAP (except, in the case of unaudited statements, as permitted by Form
10-Q) applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as may
be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly present in all material respects
the financial position of Purchaser and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of the
dates thereof and the consolidated results of their operations and cash flows
for the periods then ended (subject, in the case of unaudited statements, to the
absence of footnote disclosure and to normal and recurring year-end audit
adjustments).

          (b) Except as set forth in Section 5.8(b) of the Purchaser Disclosure
Letter and except for filings with the SEC which are the subject of Section
5.8(a), all reports, statements, documents, registrations, filings or
submissions required to be filed by Purchaser or its Affiliates with any
Governmental Authority (the "Other Purchaser Reports"), have been filed, except
where the failure to make such filings would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.
Except as set forth in Section 5.8(b) of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter, all
the Other Purchaser Reports were in compliance with Law when filed or as amended
or supplemented, and no deficiencies have been asserted in writing by any such
Governmental Authority with respect to any Other Purchaser Report that have not
been remedied, except for any non-compliance or deficiencies which would not,
individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser
Material Adverse Effect.

          (c) Except as (i) set forth in the financial statements included in
Purchaser's quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed prior to the date hereof for the
nine months ended September 30, 2004 or (ii) incurred in the ordinary course of
business since September 30, 2004, neither Purchaser nor any of its Subsidiaries
has any liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, have had or would
reasonably be expected to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.

50
 
          (d) Purchaser has made available to Parent true and complete copies of
all annual and quarterly statements of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company as
filed with the New York State Insurance Department (the "NYSID") as of and for
the year ended December 31, 2003 and for each of the quarters ended March 31,
2004, June 30, 2004 and September 30, 2004, prepared in accordance with
applicable SAP (collectively, the "Met SAP Financial Statements"). The Met SAP
Financial Statements (i) are unaudited, (ii) have been prepared from the books
and records of its businesses, (iii) are subject to Purchaser's internal
accounting policies and procedures and (iv) have been prepared in all material
respects in accordance with applicable SAP prescribed or permitted by the NYSID.

          (e) Financial Information.  Purchaser makes the representation and
warranty set forth in Section 5.8(e) of the Purchaser Disclosure Letter, which
representation and warranty is incorporated herein by reference and shall be
made as if set forth herein.

          Section 5.9 Financing.  Purchaser will have at the Closing Date
sufficient cash, available lines of credit or other sources of immediately
available funds to enable it to pay the Cash Consideration as required by this
Agreement.

          Section 5.10 Absence of Certain Changes.  Since September 30, 2004,
Purchaser has conducted its business only in the ordinary course of business;
and there has not occurred any change or event that, individually or in the
aggregate, has had a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.

          Section 5.11 Acquisition of Transferred Shares for Investment.
Purchaser is acquiring the Transferred Shares for investment and not with a view
toward sale in connection with any distribution thereof in violation of the
Securities Act. Purchaser hereby acknowledges and agrees that the Transferred
Shares may not be sold, transferred, offered for sale, pledged, hypothecated or
otherwise disposed of without registration under the Securities Act, except
pursuant to an exemption from such registration available under the Securities
Act, and without compliance with state and foreign securities Laws, in each
case, to the extent applicable.

          Section 5.12 No Purchaser Stockholder Vote Required.  No vote or other
action of the stockholders of Purchaser is required pursuant to any Requirement
of Law, the organizational documents of Purchaser or otherwise in order for
Purchaser to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the
Related Agreements.

          Section 5.13 Brokers.  No broker, investment banker, financial advisor
or other Person is entitled to any broker's, finder's, financial advisor's or
similar fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Purchaser, except
those for which Purchaser will be solely responsible.

51
 
                                   ARTICLE VI
                                    COVENANTS

          Section 6.1 Conduct of Business.

          (a) Except (i) for matters set forth in Section 6.1(a)(i) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter or Section 6.10(b)(ii) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, (ii) for matters contemplated by Section 6.14 or as otherwise expressly
contemplated hereby or (iii) with the prior written consent of Purchaser, from
and after the date hereof and prior to and including the Closing Date, Parent
hereby covenants and agrees that the Business shall be conducted in the ordinary
course of business consistent with past practice. Prior to and including the
Closing Date and except as otherwise specifically contemplated by this Agreement
or specifically consented to by Purchaser in writing, including email
transmission, Parent shall cause each of the Acquired Subsidiaries to (i)
maintain insurance coverages (to the extent available on commercially reasonable
terms) and maintain its books, accounts and records in the usual manner on a
basis consistent with past practice, with such changes therefrom as may be
required by changes in accounting rules to which such Acquired Subsidiary is
subject; (ii) maintain and keep its properties and equipment in good repair,
working order and condition; (iii) preserve and maintain the Permits of the
Insurance Companies necessary for the conduct of the Business as currently
conducted; and (iv) use reasonable efforts to maintain and preserve its business
organization, retain the services of its present officers and employees
(provided that the foregoing shall not require Sellers to expend any money) and
maintain its relationships with its agents, producers, policyholders, suppliers
and customers.

          (b) Without limiting the provisions of Section 6.1(a), Parent hereby
covenants and agrees that, except (i) as set forth in Section 6.1(b)(i) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter or Section 6.10(b)(ii) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter, (ii) for matters contemplated by Section 6.14 or as otherwise expressly
contemplated hereby or (iii) with the prior written consent of Purchaser, from
and after the date hereof and prior to and including the Closing Date, none of
Sellers (with respect to the Business) nor the Acquired Subsidiaries, as
applicable, will:

               (i) amend the articles of incorporation or bylaws or similar
organizational documents of any of the Acquired Subsidiaries;

               (ii) authorize, issue or sell, or agree to authorize, issue or
sell, any additional shares or other equity or ownership interests, or grant,
confer or award any options, warrants or rights to acquire any shares, including
securities convertible or exchangeable for shares or other equity or ownership
interests, of any Acquired Subsidiary, or take or agree to take any of the
foregoing actions as a partner in a Joint Venture with respect to any Seller's
equity interests in such Joint Venture;

               (iii) enter into any contract relating to the Business, in each
case, other than (A) such contracts that are entered into in the ordinary course
of business consistent with past practice (including guaranteed investment
contracts and funding agreements and investments made pursuant to Section
6.1(b)(xvi); provided that such guaranteed investment contracts and funding
agreements do not have put provisions that would permit the acceleration of the
stated maturity thereof upon a change of control or ratings downgrade; and (B)
any such

52
 
contract not entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent
with past practice and pursuant to which any Seller or any Acquired Subsidiary
receives, or is reasonably expected to receive, payments, or makes, or is
reasonably expected to make, payments, of less than fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000) for all contracts outside the ordinary course of business in the
aggregate per calendar year;

               (iv) modify, amend or terminate any of the Applicable Contracts,
except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;

               (v) (A) incur or assume any indebtedness for borrowed money
(including surplus notes or capital notes), (B) guarantee any indebtedness of
another, (C) make any loans or advances of borrowed money or capital
contributions to, or equity investments in, any other Person, other than
indebtedness, guarantees, loans, advances, contributions and (1) investments
pursuant to Section 6.1(b)(xvi) or (2) loans or borrowings under currently
available lines of credit or (D) create or assume any other liability or
obligation material to any Acquired Subsidiary, other than in the ordinary
course of business, or grant or create any Lien on any of its assets, other than
Permitted Liens and other Liens in the ordinary course of business; it being
hereby understood that the foregoing clauses shall apply only to the Acquired
Subsidiaries;

               (vi) except as required by Law and except with respect to the
retention agreements contemplated by Section 6.15(k), (A) adopt or amend a
Sellers Benefit Plan (or any plan that would be a Sellers Benefit Plan if
adopted) that would increase the liability of any Acquired Subsidiary (unless
such adoption or amendment applies generally to all employees of Sellers), (B)
enter into, adopt, extend, renew or amend any (1) collective bargaining
agreement (except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past
practice after consultation with Purchaser) or (2) employment agreement, in each
case, that would increase the liability of any Acquired Subsidiary, (C) employ,
or offer to employ, any individual at any of the Acquired Subsidiaries, except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (D) transfer
any employee or service provider (x) to an Acquired Subsidiary from a Person
that is not an Acquired Subsidiary or (y) from an Acquired Subsidiary to a
Person that is not an Acquired Subsidiary, unless the transferred employee or
service provider was a Business Employee before the transfer and would remain a
Business Employee immediately after the transfer, (E) grant any increase in
compensation or benefits to any Business Employee, except in the ordinary course
of business consistent with past practice for Business Employees who are neither
officers nor executives or (F) reassign any expatriate Business Employees to the
United States or to any country to which such expatriate is not assigned as of
the date of this Agreement, unless the transferred expatriate Business Employee
was a Business Employee before the transfer and would remain a Business Employee
immediately after the transfer;

               (vii) change any of its material accounting, hedging, investing,
underwriting, actuarial, pricing, Tax, agency principles, marketing or agency
principles, practices, methods or policies (including reserving methods,
practices or policies) employed with respect to the Business in any material
respect, except as may be required as a result of a change in Law, GAAP or SAP
and except as contemplated herein;

               (viii) except as required by Law or by any Governmental Authority
and except for elections made in the ordinary course of business, with respect
to any Acquired

53
 
Subsidiary, (A) make any settlement or compromise of any current audit, except
as set forth in Section 4.18 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, or settle or
compromise any audit that is not disclosed in such Section of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter, (B) consent to any extension or waiver of any limitation
period with respect to any material Taxes or (C) make a request for a Tax Ruling
or enter into a Closing Agreement, or settle or compromise any audit or other
controversy relating to Taxes, in each of clauses (A), (B) and (C), to the
extent such action results in a material adverse effect to any of the Acquired
Subsidiaries for any Post-Closing Tax Periods;

               (ix) pledge or otherwise encumber shares of capital stock or
other equity or ownership interest of any Acquired Subsidiary or any interest in
a Joint Venture, other than Permitted Liens;

               (x) (A) acquire (by merger, consolidation, acquisition of stock
or assets or otherwise) any Person or assets comprising a business or any
material amount of property or assets in or of any other Person or (B) dispose,
transfer, encumber, pledge or lease any material property or assets;

               (xi) declare or pay any dividend or distribution with respect to
the capital stock of, or other equity or ownership interest in, any Acquired
Subsidiary, other than (i) as contemplated by Section 6.14 or (ii) to the extent
that Excess Reference Equity exceeds $200,000,000;

               (xii) except as provided for in Section 6.1(b)(viii), settle any
material claim, action or proceeding or waive any material rights or material
claims in respect of the Business;

               (xiii) enter into or terminate any exclusive distribution
agreement with respect to the Business;

               (xiv) forfeit, abandon, modify, waive or terminate any material
Permit;

               (xv) enter into any activities that are not financial in nature
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act;

               (xvi) (A) make or dispose of any investments, other than in the
ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or pursuant to the
investment policies of the Acquired Subsidiaries or the investment asset
allocation plan set forth in Section 6.1(b)(xvi) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter or (B) enter into, or amend, modify or terminate, any reinsurance
contract other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past
practice with the primary effect of increasing the RBC Ratio of TIC or CLIC;

               (xvii) transfer or assign any Subsidiary Shares of any Acquired
Foreign Subsidiary to any Domestic Insurance Company;

               (xviii) make any capital contribution to, or equity investment
in, TIC or CLIC, including surplus notes, capital notes and capital stock; and

54
 
               (xix) enter into a contract to do, or to authorize, or commit to
do, any of the foregoing.

          (c) For purposes of Section 6.1(a) and 6.1(b), except as (i) expressly
set forth therein or (ii) set forth in Section 6.1(a)(i) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter, the actions contemplated thereby shall not refer to any
action by the Joint Ventures or actions taken by Sellers or their Subsidiaries
in respect of the Joint Ventures; provided, that Parent shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the business of each Joint Venture to be conducted
in the ordinary course consistent with past practice from and after the date
hereof and prior to and including the Closing Date.

          (d) Nothing contained in this Agreement shall give to Purchaser,
directly or indirectly, rights to control or direct the operation of the
Business prior to the Closing. Prior to the Closing, Sellers and their
Affiliates shall exercise, consistent with the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, complete control and supervision of the operations of the Business.

          Section 6.2 Certain Transactions.

          (a) Purchaser hereby covenants and agrees that, except as expressly
permitted in this Agreement, or with the prior written consent of Parent (which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), from and
after the date hereof and prior to and including the Closing Date, Purchaser
will not:

               (i) amend its certificate of incorporation or the Purchaser
Rights Agreement;

               (ii) except for regular annual dividends, declare, set aside or
pay any dividends on, or make any other distributions (whether in cash, stock or
property) in respect of, any of its capital stock or issue or authorize the
issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution
for shares of its capital stock;

               (iii) adopt a plan of complete or partial liquidation or
resolutions providing for the complete or partial liquidation, dissolution,
amalgamation, consolidation, restructuring, recapitalization or other
reorganization of Purchaser; or

               (iv) enter into a contract to do, or to authorize, or commit to
do, any of the foregoing.

          (b) During the period beginning five (5) Business Days prior to
commencement of the measurement period for calculating the Applicable Stock
Price until the Closing Date, Purchaser and its Affiliates shall not purchase,
or take any other actions with respect to, the Purchaser Common Stock reasonably
likely to affect the ordinary course trading price of the Purchaser Common
Stock, except as required by applicable Law or stock exchange rules or
regulations; provided, that the foregoing shall not restrict market making and
other activities in the ordinary course of business.

          (c) During the period beginning five (5) Business Days prior to
commencement of the measurement period for calculating the Applicable Stock
Price until the

55
 
Closing Date, Parent and its Affiliates shall not purchase, or take any other
actions with respect to, the Purchaser Common Stock reasonably likely to affect
the ordinary course trading price of the Purchaser Common Stock, except as
required by applicable Law or stock exchange rules or regulations; provided,
that the foregoing shall not restrict market making and other activities in the
ordinary course of business.

          Section 6.3 Additional Sellers' Covenants.

          (a) Prior to the Closing Date, Sellers shall cause each Acquired
Subsidiary to sell all Purchaser securities held, directly or indirectly, by
such Acquired Subsidiary, subject to all Requirements of Law and consistent with
contractual commitments and investment guidelines.

          (b) Until the Closing Date, Parent and its Affiliates shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to (i) continue the negotiations in progress on
the date hereof with TPC regarding the administration of previously reinsured
accident business of TIC, (ii) attempt to agree upon such an arrangement
reasonably acceptable to Purchaser, (iii) periodically advise Purchaser of the
progress of such negotiations and (iv) not enter into any such agreement without
the consent of Purchaser, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.

          (c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Parent
shall cause Sellers to use commercially reasonable efforts (including diligently
pursuing all required applications with any applicable Governmental Authority),
to cause the payment of $200,000,000 of cash dividends by Acquired Foreign
Subsidiaries in the amounts and by the Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries set forth
in Exhibit F. Parent shall further cause the Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries to
not pay any cash dividends following the date of this Agreement to Parent or any
of its Affiliates (which are not Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries) in excess of the
$200,000,000 of dividends provided for in the prior sentence. In addition,
Parent shall not permit any Acquired Foreign Subsidiary to pay any dividend or
make any other distribution to any Acquired Domestic Subsidiary or make any
investment in any Acquired Domestic Subsidiary, including an investment in
surplus notes issued by such Acquired Domestic Subsidiary.

          Section 6.4 Access and Confidentiality.

          (a) From the date hereof to the Closing, subject to any applicable
Requirement of Law, (i) Parent shall, and shall cause the Acquired Subsidiaries
to, furnish promptly to Purchaser (A) a copy of each annual statement, quarterly
statement and registration statement filed by any Acquired Subsidiary pursuant
to any Requirement of Law; (B) management financial reports (together with all
accompanying documents) provided with respect to any Acquired Subsidiary; (C)
all inquiries and subpoenas from any Governmental Authority to any Acquired
Subsidiary with respect to any alleged deficiency or violation material to the
financial condition or operations of such Acquired Subsidiary; and (D) each
written report or examination or examination of financial condition or market
conduct (in final form) of any Insurance Company; provided that the foregoing
shall not require Parent or any Acquired Subsidiary to prepare and furnish any
report or other information not otherwise prepared in the ordinary course of
business consistent with past practice; and (ii) each Seller will permit

56
 
Purchaser and its representatives to have reasonable access, during regular
business hours and upon reasonable advance notice to such Seller's properties,
premises, facilities, information technology systems, employees and
representatives and books and records, including all computer tapes and
similarly stored data, of Sellers and the Acquired Subsidiaries (such access to
include access to joint venture representatives appointed by any Acquired
Subsidiaries, access for underwriters with respect to the financing by Purchaser
of the Cash Consideration only so long as such underwriters shall have entered
into confidentiality agreements and Sellers will use commercially reasonable
efforts to provide full access to the project set forth in Section 6.4(a) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter for due diligence), but only to the extent that such
access does not unreasonably interfere with the respective businesses of Sellers
and only to the extent related to the Business, and each Seller shall direct its
respective employees, agents and representatives and shall cause the employees,
agents and representatives of their respective Affiliates, to cooperate fully
with Purchaser and its representatives; provided that Purchaser, and its
respective representatives shall comply with the confidentiality obligations
referred to in Sections 6.4(b) to (d); and provided, further, that the foregoing
shall not require (1) Sellers or any of their Affiliates to (x) permit any
inspection, or to disclose any information, that would result in the disclosure
of any trade secrets of Sellers or of any of their respective Affiliates
unrelated to the Business, (y) violate any obligations of Sellers or Purchaser
or their respective Affiliates, as the case may be, to any third party with
respect to confidentiality; provided that Sellers shall have used commercially
reasonable efforts to obtain the consent of such third party to such inspection
or disclosure or (z) disclose consolidated Tax Returns or Tax-related work
papers to each other or (2) any disclosure by Sellers or Purchaser, as the case
may be, or any of their respective Affiliates, that would reasonably be
expected, as a result of such disclosure, and in the opinion of outside counsel,
to have the effect of causing the waiver of any attorney-client privilege.

          (b) From and after the date hereof, Purchaser shall not, and shall
cause each of its Affiliates (including the Acquired Subsidiaries) and its and
its Affiliates' personnel (including each of its and its Affiliates'
accountants, legal advisers and other professional advisers) not to, disclose to
any other Person or otherwise use any Sellers Confidential Information;
provided, that Purchaser and its Affiliates may disclose Sellers Confidential
Information (i) to the extent required by Law, in any report, statement,
testimony or other submission to any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction
over Purchaser or any of its Affiliates, (ii) with respect to the investment
portfolio of the Acquired Subsidiaries, to Portfolio Appraisers in accordance
with Section 6.21 or (iii) in order to comply with any Law applicable to
Purchaser or any of its Affiliates, or in response to any summons, subpoena or
other legal process or formal or informal investigative demand issued to
Purchaser or any of its Affiliates in the course of any litigation,
investigation or administrative proceeding; provided, further, that, if
Purchaser or any of its Affiliates becomes legally compelled by deposition,
interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or
similar judicial or administrative process to disclose any Sellers Confidential
Information, Purchaser shall provide Parent with reasonably prompt prior written
notice of such requirement, and, to the extent reasonably practicable, cooperate
reasonably with Parent and Parent's Affiliates (at Parent's expense) to obtain a
protective order or similar remedy to cause Sellers Confidential Information not
to be disclosed. In the event that such protective order or other similar remedy
is not obtained, Purchaser shall furnish only that portion of Sellers
Confidential Information that has been legally compelled. Purchaser hereby
agrees, and shall cause its Affiliates, to protect Sellers Confidential
Information by using the same degree of care, but no less than a reasonable
degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized

57
 
disclosure of such Sellers Confidential Information as Purchaser uses to protect
its own confidential information of a like nature.

          (c) From and after the Closing, Sellers shall not, and shall cause
each of their Affiliates and their Affiliates' personnel (including each of
their and their Affiliates' accountants, legal advisers and other professional
advisers) not to, disclose to any other Person any Business Confidential
Information; provided, that any Seller may disclose Business Confidential
Information (i) to the extent required by Law, in any report, statement,
testimony or other submission to any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction
over such Seller or (ii) in order to comply with any Law applicable to such
Seller, or in response to any summons, subpoena or other legal process or formal
or informal investigative demand issued to such Seller in the course of any
litigation, investigation or administrative proceeding; provided, further, that,
if a Seller or any of its Affiliates becomes legally compelled by deposition,
interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or
similar judicial or administrative process to disclose any Business Confidential
Information, such Seller shall provide Purchaser with prompt prior written
notice of such requirement, and, to the extent reasonably practicable, cooperate
with Purchaser and Purchaser's Affiliates (at Purchaser's expense) to obtain a
protective order or similar remedy to cause Business Confidential Information
not to be disclosed, including interposing all available objections thereto,
such as objections based on settlement privilege. In the event that such
protective order or other similar remedy is not obtained, such Seller shall
furnish only that portion of Business Confidential Information that has been
legally compelled. Parent hereby agrees, and shall cause its Affiliates, to
protect Business Confidential Information by using the same degree of care, but
no less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent the unauthorized disclosure
of such Business Confidential Information as Sellers use to protect their own
confidential information of a like nature.

          (d) All information provided or obtained in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related Agreements
(including pursuant to subsections (a) through (c) above) will be held in
accordance with the confidentiality agreements, by and between Purchaser and
Parent (the "Confidentiality Agreements"). In the event of a conflict or
inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Confidentiality
Agreements, the terms of this Agreement will govern. Each of Purchaser and
Parent hereby agrees to extend the term of the Confidentiality Agreements to one
(1) year from the Closing Date without any further action by either Party.

          (e) Following the Closing, subject to any applicable Requirement of
Law, each of Sellers will permit Purchaser and its respective representatives to
have reasonable access, during regular business hours and upon reasonable
advance notice to examine and make copies of any books and records and personnel
relating to the Business which were retained by Sellers or their Subsidiaries
for any reasonable purpose relating to the Business, including in connection
with (i) the preparation of the Closing Date Balance Sheet and any dispute in
connection therewith, (ii) the preparation of Purchaser's accounting records or
with any audits, (iii) any suit, claim, action, proceeding or investigation
relating to the Business, (iv) any regulatory filing or matter or (v) any other
valid legal or business purpose of Purchaser. Sellers shall cooperate with
Purchaser to respond to any inquiry from any Governmental Authority regarding
the Business.

58
 
          (f) Following the Closing, subject to any applicable Requirement of
Law, Purchaser will permit Sellers and their respective representatives to have
reasonable access, during regular business hours and upon reasonable advance
notice, to the books and records and personnel relating to the Business which
were not retained by Sellers or their Subsidiaries for any reasonable purpose
relating to the business of Sellers, including in connection with (i) the
preparation of Sellers' accounting records or with any audits, (ii) any suit,
claim, action, proceeding or investigation relating to the Business, (iii) any
regulatory filing or matter or (iv) in connection with any other valid legal or
business purpose of Sellers.

          (g) Each Party shall preserve and keep all books and records and all
information relating to the accounting, business and financial affairs that are
retained by any Seller or any Affiliate of any Seller or are obtained by
Purchaser hereunder, as the case may be, which information relates to the
Transferred Shares or the Business for a reasonable period (not less than seven
(7) years) after the Closing Date, or for any longer period as may be (i)
required by Law or any Governmental Authority or (ii) reasonably necessary with
respect to the prosecution or defense of any audit or other legal action that is
then pending or threatened and with respect to which the requesting Party has
notified the other Party as to the need to retain such books, records or
information. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.4(g),
the provisions of Article VIII shall govern the preservation, retention and
sharing of Tax Returns and Tax work papers.

          Section 6.5 Notice of Changes.  From the date hereof to the Closing
Date, Sellers, on the one hand, and Purchaser, on the other hand, shall promptly
advise the other in writing upon acquiring Knowledge of any fact which, if
existing or known on the date hereof, would have been required to be set forth
or disclosed pursuant to this Agreement or of any fact which, if existing or
known on the date hereof, would have made any of the representations of such
Party contained herein untrue in any material respect. No such information shall
impact any representation or warranty of the Party disclosing such information
or any rights or remedies available to the Party receiving such information in
connection with any breach of any representation or warranty; provided that a
breach of this Section 6.5 shall not be considered for purposes of determining
the satisfaction of the closing conditions set forth in Article VII or give rise
to a right of termination under Article IX if the underlying breach or breaches
with respect to which the other Party failed to give notice would not result in
the failure of the closing conditions set forth in Article VII or would not
result in the ability of such non-breaching Party to terminate this Agreement
under Article IX, as the case may be.

          Section 6.6 Efforts; Filings.

          (a) Under the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement,
each of Parent and Purchaser shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to
take, agree to take, or cause to be taken, any and all actions and to do, or
cause to be done, any and all things necessary, proper or advisable under any
Requirement of Law or otherwise, so as to, as promptly as practicable (i) permit
consummation of the purchase of the Transferred Shares and (ii) otherwise enable
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related
Agreements, and each such Party shall, and shall cause its respective Affiliates
to, cooperate fully to that end. As used in this Section 6.6, "commercially
reasonable efforts" shall be deemed to include promptly agreeing to take,
taking, or causing to be taken, any and all other reasonable

59
 
actions required by any Governmental Authority in jurisdictions where both the
Acquired Subsidiaries and Purchaser or its Subsidiaries conduct business and the
applicable Governmental Authority or applicable Law restricts the number of
licenses which may be held by any group of Affiliated Persons.

          (b) As promptly as practicable after the date of this Agreement, but
in no event later than twenty-one (21) days after the date of this Agreement,
(i) if and to the extent required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder (the "HSR Act"), Parent and Purchaser shall prepare and file all
documents and notifications with the FTC and the DOJ as are required to comply
with the HSR Act and (ii) Purchaser and its Affiliates shall prepare and file
all required Statements on Form A and similar filings with respect to the
acquisitions of control over the Domestic Insurance Companies contemplated
hereby. As promptly as practicable after the date of this Agreement, Parent and
Purchaser shall prepare and file any similar filings in respect of the
acquisitions of control over the International Insurance Companies contemplated
hereby and any other filings with Governmental Authorities otherwise required in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related
Agreements. Parent and Purchaser shall cooperate with each other in good faith
in the preparation of all such filings and responses, and shall do, or cause to
be done, all things and take, or cause to be taken, all actions required to
obtain the prompt termination of the waiting period thereunder.

          (c) Without limiting the foregoing, each of Parent and Purchaser
hereby agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare all
documentation, to effect all filings and to obtain all permits, consents,
clearances, waivers, approvals and authorizations of all Governmental
Authorities and other Persons necessary to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement and the Related Agreements as promptly as
practicable. In connection with effecting any such filing or obtaining any such
permit, consent, clearance, waiver, approval or authorization necessary to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related
Agreements, each of Parent and Purchaser shall, subject to applicable Law, (i)
permit counsel for the other Party to review in advance, and consider in good
faith the views of the other Party in connection with, any proposed written
communication to any Governmental Authority, and (ii) provide counsel for the
other party with copies of all filings made by such Party, and all
correspondence between such Party (and its advisors) with any Governmental
Authority and any other information supplied by such Party and such Party's
Subsidiaries to, or received from, a Governmental Authority relating to the
transactions contemplated hereby; provided, however, that materials may be
redacted or withheld (x) to the extent that they concern the valuation of the
Business or alternatives to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the Related Agreements and (y) as necessary to comply with contractual
arrangements.

          Section 6.7 Approval of New Fund Contracts.

          (a) Purchaser and Sellers recognize that the transactions contemplated
hereunder shall constitute an assignment and/or termination of certain of the
Investment Contracts and the underwriting agreement for each of the Funds under
the terms thereof and the Investment Company Act. Sellers will, and Purchaser
will use all commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate to solicit the
approval ("Fund Board Resolutions") of each of the Fund

60
 
Boards, in accordance with the requirements of the Investment Company Act with
respect to the Fund Transactions pertaining to such Fund. The term "Fund
Transactions" shall mean (i) adoption by or on behalf of such Fund of (A) an
investment management agreement with the applicable Acquired Subsidiary (which
agreement shall be in form and substance substantially identical to such Fund's
existing investment management agreement with such Acquired Subsidiary), (B) an
underwriting agreement on behalf of such Fund with an appropriately licensed
Affiliate of Purchaser, (which agreement shall be in form and substance
substantially identical to the existing underwriting agreement with such Fund),
provided, however, that this clause (B) shall not apply to any Fund which as of
the date hereof does not have an underwriting agreement with an Affiliate of
Sellers, and (C) administrative services, transfer agency services and pricing
and book-keeping services agreements with the applicable Acquired Subsidiaries
with respect to other services provided to the Funds (which agreements shall be
in form and substance substantially identical to such Funds' existing agreements
with such Acquired Subsidiaries for such services), with each such agreement to
be effective upon the Closing and (ii) all required actions under federal or
state securities Laws in connection with the foregoing.

          (b) Purchaser and Sellers will expeditiously use all commercially
reasonable efforts and cooperate to cause (i) to be prepared and filed with the
SEC, cleared by the SEC and mailed to the shareholders of the Funds, proxy
statements pertaining to such of the Fund Transactions as may require approval
of such shareholders under the Investment Company Act, such proxy statements to
contain all required information and disclosures and to be subject to
Purchaser's review and approval, which will not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed, (ii) special meetings of the shareholders of the Funds to be called to
vote on such Fund Transactions and (iii) the shareholders of the Funds to
approve such Fund Transactions. The costs of seeking such shareholder approval
(including printing, mailing and proxy solicitation costs) shall be borne
equally by Purchaser and Sellers.

          (c) Purchaser and its Affiliates will provide to the Trustees of the
respective Funds, their counsel and Sellers, all information regarding them and
the applicable Fund Transactions reasonably requested in connection therewith.

          (d) Except as specified in Section 6.23 hereof, promptly following the
date hereof, and in any event at least forty-five (45) days prior to the Closing
Date, the appropriate Acquired Subsidiary shall inform each of its non-Fund
clients in writing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement by sending
such client a notice of, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to seek,
such client's consent to the continuation of its investment advisory agreements
with such Subsidiary following consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby, which notice shall be subject to Purchaser's review and approval, which
will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. To the extent consistent with
applicable Law or SEC pronouncements, such consent may take the form of a
so-called implied or negative consent. Purchaser and its Affiliates will provide
to Sellers all information regarding them reasonably required in connection
therewith.

          (e) Subject to applicable fiduciary duties to the Funds, Sellers will
use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that the Funds take no action that
would (i) prevent any Fund from qualifying as an RIC or (ii) be inconsistent
with any Fund's prospectus and other offering, advertising and marketing
materials.

61
 
          (f) Each of Purchaser and Parent hereby agrees that neither it nor any
of its Affiliates has any express or implied understanding or agreement that
would impose an "unfair burden" (as defined in the Investment Company Act) on
any Fund or would in any way interfere with any Fund's reliance on section 15(f)
of the Investment Company Act as a result of the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement. Purchaser and Parent hereby agree to comply and to use their
respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause the respective Fund Boards
to comply with the provisions of section 15(f) of the Investment Company Act
prior to the Closing. Following the Closing, Purchaser shall not fail to take,
and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause each Affiliate of
Purchaser not to fail to take, any action if the failure to take such action
would have the effect, directly or indirectly, of causing the requirements of
any of the provisions of section 15(f) of the Investment Company Act not to be
met in respect of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby. In
that regard, Purchaser shall conduct its business and shall, subject to the
applicable fiduciary duties to the Funds, use its commercially reasonable
efforts to cause each of its Affiliates to conduct its business so as to assure
that, insofar as within the control of Purchaser or its Affiliates, (1) for a
period of three (3) years after the Closing, at least seventy-five percent (75%)
of the members of the governing board of each Fund or their successors are not
(A) "interested persons" (as defined in the Investment Company Act) of the
investment adviser of such Fund after the Closing, or (B) "interested persons"
of the present or successor investment manager of such Fund; and (2) for a
period of two (2) years after the Closing, there shall not be imposed on any
Fund an "unfair burden" as a result of the transactions contemplated under this
Agreement, or any express or implied terms, conditions or understandings
applicable thereto.

          Section 6.8 Further Assurances.  After the Closing Date, each of
Parent and Purchaser shall use its commercially reasonable efforts from time to
time to (a) execute and deliver at the reasonable request of the other Party
such additional documents and instruments as may be reasonably required to give
effect to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the Related Agreements and (b) provide whatever documents or other evidence of
ownership as may be reasonably requested by Purchaser to confirm Purchaser's
ownership of the Transferred Shares.

          Section 6.9 Notice of Proceedings.  Purchaser will promptly notify
Parent, and Parent will promptly notify Purchaser, in writing, upon (a) becoming
aware of any order or decree or any complaint praying for an order or decree
restraining or enjoining the execution of this Agreement or the consummation of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related Agreements, or
(b) receiving any notice from any Governmental Authority of its intention to (i)
institute a suit or proceeding to restrain or enjoin the execution of this
Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
and the Related Agreements or (ii) nullify or render ineffective this Agreement
or such transactions if consummated.

          Section 6.10 Guaranties; Letters of Credit; Intercompany Agreements.

          (a) Purchaser shall cause itself or one or more of its Affiliates to
be substituted in all respects for any Seller or any of its Affiliates (other
than the Acquired Subsidiaries) as applicable, effective as of the Closing, in
respect of all obligations of each such Seller or its Affiliates (other than the
Acquired Subsidiaries) under each of the guaranties,

62
 
bonding arrangements, keepwells, net worth maintenance agreements, letters of
credit, reimbursement obligations and letters of comfort obtained by any such
Seller or its Affiliates (other than Acquired Subsidiaries) for the benefit of
the Business (the "Guaranties"), including those set forth in Section 6.10(a) of
the Sellers Disclosure Letter, which Sellers acknowledge constitute all material
Guaranties. In the event that the Guaranties set forth in Section 6.10(a) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter and any Guaranties entered into in accordance with
Section 6.1 do not constitute all of the material Guaranties, Purchaser shall be
entitled to indemnification by Parent of any costs incurred by Purchaser to the
extent such costs would not have been incurred had such omitted Guaranties been
included in Section 6.10(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter; provided, that
such incremental costs shall not include the amount of the Guaranty obligations
incurred by virtue of the terms of this Section 6.10 in respect thereto. If
Purchaser is unable to effect such a substitution with respect to any Guaranty
after using its commercially reasonable efforts to do so, Purchaser shall hold
the relevant Sellers and their Affiliates (other than the Acquired Subsidiaries)
harmless with respect to the obligations covered by each of the Guaranties for
which Purchaser does not effect such substitution.

          (b) Except as set forth in Section 6.10(b)(i) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement, Sellers shall,
and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, immediately prior to the
Closing, among other things, execute and deliver such releases, termination
agreements on terms reasonably acceptable to Purchaser and discharges as are
necessary to terminate all arrangements, commitments, contracts and
understandings among any Seller and any Affiliate set forth in Section
6.10(b)(ii) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          Section 6.11 Certain Other Actions.  The Parties agree that Section
6.11 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter are incorporated herein by reference and
shall be binding as if set forth herein, and the Parties agree to take all
actions set forth in Section 6.11 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          Section 6.12 Names of Acquired Subsidiaries.  As soon as practicable
after the Closing, Purchaser shall cause the certificate of incorporation (or
equivalent organizational documents) of each Acquired Subsidiary and each
Subsidiary thereof to be amended to remove any reference to "Citi" or "citi,"
any name or mark that incorporates "Citi" or "citi" or any variation thereof or
any name or mark similar to "Citi" or "citi" or any other Trademarks owned by
Sellers, Parent or any of their Affiliates from the name of such Acquired
Subsidiary or such Subsidiary thereof, and within ninety (90) days from the
Closing, Purchaser shall file the applicable documents relating thereto with the
appropriate Governmental Authorities.

          Section 6.13 Related Agreements.  The Parties will negotiate in good
faith the terms of each of the Related Agreements (it being understood that
representatives of Purchaser shall act on behalf of the Acquired Subsidiaries in
connection therewith) and a certificate of designations regarding the Purchaser
Convertible Preferred Stock consistent with the term sheets attached hereto and
on other customary terms reasonably satisfactory to the Parties. On the Closing
Date, (i) each of the Parties shall enter into, and shall cause its applicable
Affiliates to enter into, each of the Related Agreements to which it is intended
to be a party and (ii) if shares of the Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock
are to be issued, Purchaser shall file a certificate of designations regarding
the Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock, including the terms set forth

63
 
in Exhibit H and other customary terms, with the Secretary of State of the State
of Delaware in accordance with Delaware Law.

          Section 6.14 Restructuring.  Prior to the Closing, Sellers shall cause
(i) the ownership of the assets (including equity interests) and liabilities
identified in Exhibit F attached hereto to be transferred out of the Acquired
Subsidiaries and the Subsidiaries of any Acquired Subsidiaries and (ii) the
consummation of the other transactions contemplated by such Exhibit F. Sellers
shall undertake the foregoing transactions in a commercially reasonable manner
which preserves the economic value for Purchaser of the transactions
contemplated hereby, and effects the goal of separating the Business from Parent
and its Affiliates and otherwise consummating the transactions contemplated by
this Section 6.14. Sellers shall regularly consult with Purchaser regarding the
transactions contemplated by this Section 6.14. For the avoidance of doubt, any
Trademark which includes the words "Citigroup", "Citi", "citi" or the umbrella
logo shall be deemed not primarily related to the Business.

          Section 6.15 Employee Matters.

          (a) No later than June 15, 2005, Purchaser and/or any of its
Affiliates shall make offers of employment, either individually and/or as a
group, to Business Employees who are not employed by any Acquired Subsidiary.
Each Business Employee who accepts such offer of employment and each Business
Employee employed by the Acquired Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date is
referred to herein as a "Continuing Business Employee." Purchaser hereby
acknowledges that individuals who are employees of the Acquired Foreign
Subsidiaries on the Closing Date will be employees of Purchaser or an Affiliate
of Purchaser immediately following the Closing Date.

          (b) From the Closing Date through the first anniversary of the Closing
Date, Purchaser shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to the Continuing
Business Employees, as a group, rate of base pay and benefits that (as
determined in good faith by Purchaser) are materially no less favorable in the
aggregate than those provided to such Continuing Business Employees immediately
prior to the Closing Date.

          (c) With respect to Business Employees in the U.S., effective as of
the Closing Date, Purchaser shall cause to be (i) waived all limitations as to
pre-existing conditions, if any, under any welfare plan of Purchaser or its
Affiliates in which such Continuing Business Employees may be eligible to
participate after the Closing Date, to the extent that such conditions would
have been waived or satisfied under the corresponding welfare plan in which any
such Continuing Business Employee participated immediately prior to the Closing
Date or (ii) provided to each Continuing Business Employee credit for all
service recognized by Sellers and their Affiliates under the corresponding
Sellers Benefit Plan for purposes of eligibility, waiting periods and vesting in
Purchaser's or its Affiliate's 401(k) Plan, Personal Retirement Account pension
program and active employee medical, active employee dental, active employee
long-term or short-term disability, and active employee salary continuation
coverage.

          (d) Purchaser shall provide to each Continuing Business Employee
(other than an employee identified in Section 6.15(k) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter) whose employment is terminated during the period commencing on the
Closing Date and ending six (6) months thereafter, severance pay, the principle
terms of which are no less favorable than the following:

64
 
(i) covers full time U.S. citizens on a U.S. payroll who are FLSA exempt; (ii)
paid only for an involuntary termination due to staff reduction or realignment
of the work force; (iii) transfers and relocations are not covered; (iv) subject
to execution of a release; (v) payment is two (2) weeks base pay for each full
twelve (12) months of service, up to maximum of fifty-two (52) weeks, with the
following minimums: four (4) weeks base pay if base pay is less than $50,001;
eight (8) weeks base pay if base pay is from $50,001 to $100,000; and twelve
(12) weeks base pay if base pay is over $100,000; (vi) provide six (6) months of
subsidized COBRA coverage and provide outplacement services, in each case,
consistent with the terms of Purchaser's severance program; and (vii) may be
provided under a plan providing for administrator discretion sufficient to
qualify for deferential review under the ERISA Firestone doctrine. For purposes
of the preceding sentence and Purchaser's or an Affiliate's paid time off or
vacation program, Purchaser shall take into account a Continuing Business
Employee's service with Purchaser and its Affiliates from and after the Closing
Date, plus all service before the Closing Date for which such Continuing
Business Employee was credited under the corresponding Sellers Benefit Plan. In
all cases, severance pay provided by Purchaser and its Affiliates to any
Continuing Business Employee shall not be less than what is required to be
provided under applicable Law.

          (e) The Parties agree that Section 6.15(e) of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter is incorporated herein by reference and shall be binding as if set forth
herein, and the Parties agree to take all actions set forth in Section 6.15(e)
of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          (f) At least ten (10) Business Days prior to the Closing Date,
Purchaser shall provide to Sellers a written schedule identifying all Business
Employees not employed by an Acquired Subsidiary who have accepted Purchaser's
offer of employment (the "Offer Schedule"). During the period commencing on the
date of this Agreement and ending on the first anniversary of the later of (i)
the Closing Date or (ii) the last day on which such Business Employee is
seconded to Purchaser or one of its Affiliates in accordance with this Section
6.15(f), neither Purchaser nor any of its Affiliates shall offer employment, or
engagement for services, to, or solicit (other than a general public
solicitation), any Business Employee (other than an employee identified in
Section 6.15(k) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter and other than with respect to
a Business Employee to whom Purchaser or one of its Affiliates makes an offer
which replicates compensation and benefits provided to such Business Employee by
the Sellers or one of their Affiliates immediately prior to such offer except in
the case where replication of such benefits is not reasonably practicable) who
receives severance (or, if outside the U.S., payments of a similar nature) from
Sellers or any of their Affiliates in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement. To the extent permitted by applicable Law,
effective as of the Closing Date, Sellers shall second to Purchaser or one of
its Affiliates each Business Employee identified by Purchaser who is employed by
Sellers or one of their Affiliates (other than by an Acquired Subsidiary) on the
Closing Date and who is not identified on the Offer Schedule (the "Seconded
Employees"). The secondment of each Seconded Employee shall terminate on the
earliest to occur of (i) thirty (30) days following the date on which Purchaser
notifies the Sellers that it wishes to end the Seconded Employee's secondment,
(ii) the date on which such Seconded Employee's employment with Sellers and/or
their Affiliates terminates or (iii) the first anniversary of the Closing Date.
Purchaser shall (i) be responsible for, pay, and shall indemnify, defend, save
and hold harmless Sellers and their Affiliates from any and all costs (including
but not limited to costs of compensation and benefits but excluding any
severance or severance related benefits) in respect of any Seconded Employee
with respect to the period during which

65
 
such employee is seconded and (ii) be responsible for and shall pay one-half of
all severance costs due to a Seconded Employee whose secondment is terminated by
Purchaser or any of its Affiliates during the period commencing on the Closing
Date and ending on the six (6) month anniversary of the Closing Date.

          (g) Prior to Closing, Sellers shall take all actions required so that
none of the Acquired Subsidiaries shall have any liability with respect to any
of the Sellers Benefit Plans, except for the Retained Sellers Benefit Plans
Liabilities. To the fullest extent permitted by Law, within twenty (20) Business
Days after the date of this Agreement, Sellers shall provide to Purchaser a
schedule setting forth the accrued liabilities for the Retained Sellers Benefit
Plans Liabilities, as well as any related agreements (including election forms),
plan summaries, participant communications, any other information necessary for
plan administration, and any trust agreements, insurance or annuity contracts or
other arrangements the assets of which are or may be used to satisfy, in whole
or in part, benefits obligations with respect to Retained Sellers Benefit Plan
Liabilities. Sellers shall provide an updated schedule setting forth the accrued
liabilities related to (and any additional documents or plan materials related
to) Retained Sellers Benefit Plans Liabilities on the Closing Date.

          (h) Sellers shall be responsible for compliance with all applicable
requirements of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act or any
similar state Law ("WARN") arising out of, or relating to, any actions taken by
Sellers at or before the Closing Date. Subject to Purchaser's provision of
appropriate indemnification (as determined in good faith by Sellers and
Purchaser) to Sellers, Sellers agree to provide WARN notices supplied by
Purchaser to any or all Business Employees identified by Purchaser.

          (i) Sellers shall not, at any time prior to January 1, 2007, encourage
or facilitate in any way the employees of Purchaser and/or its Affiliates with
whom Sellers came into contact in association with this Agreement to discontinue
employment or suggest that such employees discontinue employment with Purchaser
or any of its Affiliates, other than in connection with a general public
solicitation. Purchaser shall not, at any time prior to January 1, 2007,
encourage or facilitate in any way the employees of Sellers and/or their
Affiliates with whom Purchaser came into contact in association with this
Agreement to discontinue employment or suggest that such employees discontinue
employment with Sellers or their Affiliates, other than in connection with a
general public solicitation.

          (j) Effective as of the Closing Date, Sellers shall 100% vest all
Business Employees in their benefits under Sellers' U.S. 401(k) plan and U.S.
pension plan and, subject to any required approval by the applicable Seller's
Compensation Committee, any equity-based incentive awards then outstanding. To
the extent any Business Employee forfeits any equity-based compensation because
the applicable Seller's Compensation Committee does not approve the vesting of
equity-based incentive awards, Sellers shall pay to such Business Employee a
cash payment of equivalent value; provided, that if the forfeited equity-based
incentive award is restricted stock, the equivalent cash payment shall be equal
to the sum of (i) the number of shares of restricted stock forfeited, multiplied
by Parent's closing stock price on the Closing Date, plus (ii) any forfeited
accumulated but unpaid dividends.

66
 
          (k) Section 6.15(k) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter shall identify
the Business Employees to whom Parent or its Affiliates intends to provide
retention agreements providing for compensation and benefits in excess of 100%
of the recipient's annual base salary. Between the date of this Agreement and
the Closing Date, Sellers may enter into such retention agreements with
additional Business Employees, provided, that the total number of Business
Employees receiving such retention agreements does not exceed thirty-five (35).
Sellers shall provide Purchaser with copies of the retention agreements at the
same time that the initial disclosure is made in Section 6.15(k) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter and, if Sellers make any changes to such disclosure schedule,
Parent shall, at the same time, provide copies of such additional agreements to
Purchaser. Sellers shall provide to Purchaser an updated schedule within five
(5) Business Days after entering into any such additional retention agreements.
Parent may establish other retention agreements or arrangements; provided, that
the compensation and benefits to be received under each such other retention
agreement or arrangement shall not exceed 100% of the recipient's annual base
salary and shall be paid or provided not later than the Closing Date. Sellers or
their Affiliates shall have and retain all responsibilities and liabilities with
respect to any retention agreements or arrangements described in the preceding
sentences of this Section 6.15(k). Any retention arrangements entered into with
a Business Employee by Purchaser or an Affiliate of Purchaser (other than an
Acquired Subsidiary) in respect of all periods after the Closing Date shall be
the sole responsibility and liability of Purchaser or its Affiliate, as the case
may be.

          (l) Sellers shall cause all amounts under the Citigroup Inc. Travelers
Life and Annuity Agency Capital Accumulation Plan to fully vest and be
distributed to participants as of the Closing Date and shall take actions
necessary to terminate such plan effective on or prior to the Closing Date.
Within ten (10) Business Days following the date hereof, Sellers shall cause to
be provided to Purchaser all such documents and information in the possession of
Sellers or their Affiliates relating to the Agent Deferred Compensation Plans as
Purchaser shall request and shall make reasonably available to Purchaser such
personnel who are knowledgeable with respect to the Agent Deferred Compensation
Plans. To the extent permitted by Law and to the extent that the Sellers'
actions do not result in a contractual breach by the Sellers or one of their
Affiliates to any third party (including participants in the Agent Deferred
Compensation Plans), Sellers shall take all actions necessary to provide for
termination, vesting and/or complete distribution of benefits under one or more
of the Agent Deferred Compensation Plans to the extent requested by Purchaser
upon receipt by Sellers of reasonable notice from Purchaser.

          (m) Any Business Employee receiving short or long-term disability as
of the Closing Date shall continue to be eligible for such disability benefits
and other benefits associated with such disability benefits, in each case, under
Sellers' benefit plans until such time as such employee presents himself or
herself for active employment. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
nothing herein shall require Purchaser or one of its Affiliates from providing
any benefits to a Business Employee who is receiving workers' compensation
benefits on the Closing Date.

          Section 6.16 Stock Exchange Listing.  Purchaser shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to cause the shares of Purchaser Common Stock
comprising the Stock Consideration to be issued and delivered to Sellers in
accordance with Section 2.2 (including

67
 
shares issuable upon conversion of any Purchaser Convertible Preferred Stock) to
be approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance,
prior to the Closing Date.

          Section 6.17 Noncompetition; Nonsolicitation.

          (a) Except as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement and the Related
Agreements, and subject to the following provisions of this Section 6.17, until
the seventh anniversary of the Closing Date, Parent shall not, and shall cause
its Affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, engage in any Restricted
Business. Nothing in this Section 6.17 shall restrict Parent or any of its
Affiliates from:

               (i) conducting or engaging in any business activities that do not
constitute part of the Restricted Business, including (A) lending, financing and
other banking activities, (B) proprietary and third party portfolio and asset
management, merchant banking and fund activities, (C) securities trading and
brokerage activities, (D) advisory and other investment or commercial banking
activities and (E) custodial, trust, agent or fiduciary services (in the case of
clauses (A) through (E), the foregoing activities or services shall include
activities or services on behalf, in respect or for the account, of any Person
conducting or engaging in the Restricted Business);

               (ii) distributing any insurance products, except as provided in
the Distribution Agreements (including the selling agreements thereunder);

               (iii) in the case of AHLIC and its Subsidiaries and Triton and
Aristar, issuing and distributing in the United States and Canada through
Parent's United States and Canadian consumer bank distribution channels, (A) any
insurance products (but not annuities) in conjunction with any of Parent's or
its Affiliates' consumer credit relationships or the consumer's credit exposure;
provided that a product shall not be deemed to satisfy this clause (A) if the
only connection to such consumer credit relationship or credit exposure is the
cross-selling of such product to the customer and (B) accidental death,
accidental death and dismemberment, HIP/HAP, YRT term life and home rebound
products;

               (iv) in the case of PLIC and its Subsidiaries, in any of the
countries and principalities in Europe (including Russia) and in the United
States, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and Canada, issuing and
distributing (A) Term Insurance products and (B) critical care and disability
insurance products which any of them currently issue and distribute;

               (v) insuring (whether by self-insurance, reinsurance, captive
arrangements or otherwise) the insurance risks of, and issuing bonds related to,
the business and operations of Parent or any of its Subsidiaries;

               (vi) applying for and holding any insurance license, permit or
other authorization to the extent necessary to conduct any business not
prohibited by this Section 6.17;

               (vii) in the case of any existing insurance company Affiliate of
Parent existing on the date hereof and not covered by clause (iii) or (iv)
above, issue, distribute or administer any insurance products, which business in
the aggregate, for all such insurance companies, accounts for no more than
eighty million dollars ($80,000,000) in net revenues on an

68
 
annual basis in the United States and twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) in
net revenues on an annual basis outside the United States;

               (viii) reinsuring insurance (A) which AHLIC and its Subsidiaries
are permitted to issue in accordance with clause (iii) above, (B) which PFS and
its Subsidiaries are permitted to issue in accordance with clause (iv) above,
(C) which NBLIC is permitted to issue in accordance with clause (ix) below, and
(D) in connection with Parent's corporate financial planning, including through
purchases of run-off blocks of business (but not any form of annuity business
(including guaranteed investment contracts, funding agreements and structured
settlements) and with respect to the life insurance business, only Term
Insurance products); provided that this clause (viii) shall not permit Parent
and its Affiliates to conduct an active third-party reinsurance business or an
active business for the purchase of run-off blocks of business or use
reinsurance to engage indirectly in a business that is not permitted under this
Section 6.17 (other than clause (D) above);

               (ix) in the case of NBLIC, issuing disability and student life
insurance products in New York State and selling such products through
third-party distributors; provided that Purchaser shall have an option to
acquire the assets and liabilities of NBLIC, other than any assets and
liabilities relating to Term Insurance products distributed by PFS or one of its
Subsidiaries (the "NBLIC Business"), within ninety (90) days from the date
hereof in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 6.17(a)(ix) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter;

               (x) acquiring any Person or assets (a "Target Business") that
includes or include operations the conduct of which by Parent or its
Subsidiaries would otherwise be deemed to be a Restricted Business (a
"Competitive Business") so long as (A) in the case of a Target Business which
has financial statements prepared in accordance with United States GAAP, (1) the
net revenues (i.e., revenues disregarding benefits and changes in reserves,
interest credited to customers and extraordinary items) derived by the Target
Business from the Competitive Business, excluding realized gains, and (2) the
net earnings (i.e., revenues disregarding extraordinary items), in the case of
clauses (A)(1) or (A)(2), based on an average of the most recently completed
three (3) fiscal years preceding such acquisition, constituted less than
twenty-five percent (25%) of such net revenues and net earnings of the Target
Business, respectively, or (B) in the case of a Target Business which does not
have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States GAAP, (1)
the net revenues (or the applicable equivalent thereof) (disregarding benefits
and changes in reserves, interest credited to customers and extraordinary items)
derived by the Target Business from the Competitive Business, excluding realized
gains, and (2) the net earnings (or the applicable equivalent thereof)
(disregarding extraordinary items), in the case of clauses (B)(1) or (B)(2),
based on an average of the most recently completed three (3) fiscal years
preceding such acquisition, constituted less than twenty-five percent (25%) of
such net revenues and net earnings of the Target Business, respectively; it
being hereby understood that in the case of a permitted acquisition of a
Competitive Business in accordance with clauses (A) or (B), Parent can
distribute the Target Business' products so acquired through its distribution
channels, subject to the terms of the applicable Distribution Agreement and
the selling agreements thereunder;

               (xi) acquiring any Target Business that includes operations the
conduct of which by Parent or its Subsidiaries would be deemed to be a
Competitive Business where the

69
 
net revenues or the net earnings derived by the Target Business from the
Competitive Business (calculated in accordance with clause (x) above)
constituted between twenty-five percent (25%) and fifty percent (50%) of such
net revenues or net earnings of the Target Business, as the case may be,
provided that in the event of such an acquisition, Parent complies with the
procedures set forth in Section 6.17(a)(xi) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter;
and

               (xii) running off any of AHLIC's, PLIC's or NBLIC's whole life
insurance or reinsurance portfolios existing as of the Closing.

          (b) Prior to the third anniversary of the Closing Date, Parent shall
not, and shall not permit any of its Affiliates to, solicit or offer employment,
other than for purposes of seconding such Business Employee in accordance with
Section 6.15, to any Business Employee or any employee of the Joint Ventures
without the prior written consent of Purchaser (not to be unreasonably
withheld); provided that the foregoing provision shall not prohibit Parent or
any of its Affiliates from offering employment to or employing persons (i) who
respond to a general solicitation or advertisement that is not specifically
directed only to Business Employees and employees of the Joint Ventures (and
nothing shall prohibit the making of any such solicitation or advertisement) or
(ii) who are referred to Parent by search firms, employment agencies or other
similar entities, provided that such entities have not been specifically
instructed by Parent to solicit the Business Employees and employees of the
Joint Ventures or (iii) whose employment has been involuntarily terminated by
Purchaser or any of its Affiliates. In addition, prior to the third anniversary
of the Closing, Parent and its Affiliates shall not hire any of the Persons
identified in Section 6.17(b) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter, unless their
employment has been involuntarily terminated by Purchaser or its Affiliates.

          Section 6.18 RBC Ratio.

          (a) Simultaneously with the delivery of the Estimated Closing Date
Balance Sheet pursuant to Section 3.2, Parent shall deliver to Purchaser an
estimate of the Closing RBC Ratio for TIC and for CLIC (the "Estimated RBC
Calculation"). If the Estimated RBC Calculation reflects an RBC Deficit for TIC
or for CLIC, Parent shall pay to Purchaser the amount of the RBC Deficit
reflected in the Estimated RBC Calculation, except that, if the Estimated RBC
Calculation reflects an RBC Deficit for one such Acquired Subsidiary and an RBC
Excess for the other, the amount of any required payment with respect to an RBC
Deficit shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of the RBC Excess
(the net payment amount being referred to as the "Estimated Net RBC Deficit").
Any payment required pursuant to this Section 6.18(a) shall be made in the form
of a Closing Date Purchase Price reduction pursuant to Section 2.2(i)(F).

          (b) Simultaneously with the preparation of the Closing Date Balance
Sheet and the Final Total Equity pursuant to Section 2.3, Purchaser shall
prepare a calculation of the Closing RBC Ratio for TIC and for CLIC (the "Final
RBC Calculation"). The Final RBC Calculation shall be subject to adjustment to
take into account any change to the Final Total Equity made in accordance with
Section 2.3. In the event of any dispute regarding the Final RBC Calculation,
such dispute shall be resolved by the Accountant in accordance with the
procedures provided in Section 2.3(b).

70
 
          (c) Using the Final RBC Calculation, as adjusted, if necessary,
pursuant to Section 6.18(b), the total of the RBC Deficits after offset of any
RBC Excess (the "Final Net RBC Deficit") shall be calculated using the same
methodology as was used for calculating the Estimated Net RBC Deficit. If the
Final Net RBC Deficit is greater than the Estimated Net RBC Deficit, Parent
shall pay to Purchaser the amount of the excess of Final Net RBC Deficit over
Estimated Net RBC Deficit. If the Final Net RBC Deficit is less than Estimated
Net RBC Deficit, Purchaser will pay Parent the difference between Estimated Net
RBC Deficit and Final Net RBC Deficit. Any payment required to be made by one
party to the other pursuant to this Section 6.18(c) shall be added to or netted
against the Final Adjustment Payment and shall bear interest in the manner
specified by Section 2.3(c).

          Section 6.19 Cooperation.

          (a) Sellers shall (A) deliver to Purchaser (i) as soon as practicable,
but in any event within ninety (90) days of the date hereof, combined (with
eliminations for any cross-ownership interests) audited financial statements of
the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures (the "Audited Financial
Statements") as of December 31, 2004 and for the year then ended and combined
(with eliminations for cross-ownership interests) unaudited financial statements
of the Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures as of December 31, 2003 and
2002, and for the years then ended (the "Unaudited Financial Statements")
prepared in accordance with GAAP in a manner consistently applied, (ii) to the
extent necessary in connection with any financing transaction undertaken by
Purchaser to fund the Cash Consideration, as soon as practicable, but in any
event, within forty-five (45) days of the end of each quarterly period ending
after December 31, 2004, unaudited consolidated financial statements of the
Acquired Subsidiaries and the Joint Ventures as of and for such quarterly
periods prepared in accordance with GAAP in a manner consistently applied and
(iii) consolidated pro forma financial information of the Acquired Subsidiaries
and the Joint Ventures and other disclosures reasonably requested by Purchaser
in connection with any financing transaction undertaken by Purchaser to fund the
Cash Consideration, and (B) reasonably cooperate with Purchaser, and shall use
commercially reasonable efforts to cause its independent auditors to so
cooperate, in the preparation and filing of any registration statement or
offering memorandum and the issuance of any comfort letter in connection with
any financing transaction undertaken by Purchaser to fund the Cash
Consideration. Any Audited Financial Statements provided hereunder will be
audited by Sellers' independent auditors at Sellers' expense.

          (b) Upon delivery of the Audited Financial Statements and the
Unaudited Financial Statements pursuant to Section 6.19(a), Parent shall be
deemed to have represented to Purchaser that the Audited Financial Statements
and the Unaudited Financial Statements have been derived from the accounting
books and records of the Acquired Subsidiaries, after giving effect to the
transactions contemplated by Section 6.14, and have been prepared in accordance
with GAAP consistently applied; the balance sheet included in each of the
Audited Financial Statements (the "Audited Balance Sheet") and the Unaudited
Financial Statements presents fairly in all material respects the financial
position of the Acquired Subsidiaries, after giving effect to the transactions
contemplated by Section 6.14, as at the date thereof; and the income statement
included in the Audited Financial Statements and the Unaudited Financial
Statements presents fairly in all material respects the results of operations of
the Acquired Subsidiaries, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated
by Section 6.14, for the period indicated.

71
 
          (c) Following delivery of the Audited Financial Statements pursuant to
Section 6.19(a), Reference Equity shall be adjusted to equal the amount set
forth in the Audited Balance Sheet that is the comparable of "Total Rainbow GAAP
Equity: Equity (excl. Unrealized)" on the December 31 Balance Sheet, plus
$232,000,000.

          (d) In the event that the difference (if any) between Reference
Equity, as may be adjusted pursuant to Section 6.19(c), and $7,712,000,000 is
less than or equal to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), then Excess Reference
Equity and Shortfall Reference Equity shall be zero.

          (e) In the event that Reference Equity, as adjusted pursuant to
Section 6.19(c), is in excess of $7,712,000,000 by more than fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000), then Excess Reference Equity shall be equal to the entire
amount of such excess (the "Excess Reference Equity"); provided, however, that
in no event shall the Excess Reference Equity exceed $200 million dollars. In
the event that Reference Equity, as adjusted pursuant to Section 6.19(c), is
less than $7,712,000,000 by more than fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), then
Shortfall Reference Equity shall be equal to the entire amount of such shortfall
(the "Shortfall Reference Equity").

          Section 6.20 Security Information.  As soon as possible following the
date hereof, Sellers shall make available to Purchaser the appropriate personnel
to discuss the Acquired Subsidiaries' information security policies, experiences
complying with such policies and material breach of such policies.

          Section 6.21 Asset Valuation.

          (a) Section 6.21(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter sets forth
Sellers' GAAP carrying value as of December 31, 2004 of each of the assets
within the asset classes described therein as "Commercial & Agricultural Loans",
"Direct Real Estate Equity Investments", "Direct Private Equity Investments" and
"Private Placements" (each, an "Asset Class" and collectively, the "Asset
Classes"). The aggregate of the GAAP carrying value of all such assets in all
Asset Classes is herein referred to as the "Sellers Carrying Value."

          (b) From the date hereof until February 28, 2005, Purchaser shall have
the option to provide Parent with Purchaser's determination of the Fair Value
(as defined below) of each of the assets set forth in Section 6.21(a) of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter. The aggregate of the Fair Value of all such assets in
all Asset Classes is herein referred to as the "Purchaser Valuation." For
purposes of this Section 6.21, "Fair Value" shall mean the amount for which a
particular asset could have been sold as of December 31, 2004 in an orderly
disposition and under no compulsion over a reasonable period of time, taking
into account the nature of such asset.

          (c) In connection with the preparation of the Purchaser Valuation,
Sellers shall, and shall cause the Acquired Subsidiaries to, cooperate with
Purchaser and provide Purchaser with commercially reasonable access to all books
and records in their possession relating to each of the assets set forth in
Section 6.21(a) of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

72
 
          (d) In the event that Purchaser opts to provide the Purchaser
Valuation, and the Purchaser Valuation is less than 99.0% of the Sellers
Carrying Value, Parent shall deliver to Purchaser, on or before March 15, 2005,
either a notice of (i) Parent's agreement with the Purchaser Valuation or (ii)
Parent's dispute with the Purchaser Valuation. During the thirty (30) days after
the delivery of any dispute notice to Purchaser, Purchaser and Parent shall
attempt in good faith to resolve any such dispute and finally determine the
aggregate Fair Value of all of the assets within all of the Asset Classes (the
"Asset FV"). If Purchaser and Parent cannot mutually agree on the Asset FV
within such thirty (30) day period, Purchaser and Parent shall, within fifteen
(15) days of the expiration of such thirty (30) day period, retain mutually
acceptable, independent investment banking or appraisal firms of national
reputation and expertise relating to each of the Asset Classes (each a
"Portfolio Appraiser," and collectively, the "Portfolio Appraisers") to
determine the Asset FV as promptly as practicable thereafter. If Purchaser and
Parent cannot mutually agree on the selection of one or more of the Portfolio
Appraisers for any Asset Class within such fifteen (15) day period, then the
Accountant shall select the Portfolio Appraisers for such Asset Class or Asset
Classes as necessary to determine the Asset FV. Each of Purchaser and Parent
shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate so as to enable the
Portfolio Appraisers to provide an appraisal of the Asset FV. The determination
of the Asset FV by the Portfolio Appraiser shall be final and binding on
Purchaser and Parent. All fees and expenses relating to the foregoing work by
the Portfolio Appraisers shall be borne (i) by Purchaser, in the event that the
Independent Valuation (as defined below) is greater than the Purchaser Valuation
or (ii) by Parent, in the event the Independent Valuation is equal to or less
than the Purchaser Valuation.

          (e) Reference Equity shall be (i) decreased in the amount by which the
Independent Valuation exceeds 101.0% of the Sellers Carrying Value or (ii)
increased by the amount by which the Independent Valuation is less than 99.0% of
the Sellers Carrying Value, as the case may be. In the event that the
Independent Valuation is equal to or greater than 99.0% of the Sellers Carrying
Value and equal to or less than 101.0% of the Sellers Carrying Value, Reference
Equity shall not be adjusted pursuant to this Section 6.21. As used herein,
"Independent Valuation" shall mean the aggregate of the Asset FV for all Asset
Classes as determined by the Portfolio Appraisers or as agreed to by Parent and
Purchaser.

          (f) Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, in the
event that Purchaser (i) fails to provide Parent with the Purchaser Valuation on
or before February 28, 2005, no adjustment to the Reference Equity shall be made
and the provisions of Sections 6.21(d) and (e) shall not apply or (ii) provides
Parent with the Purchaser Valuation on or before February 28, 2005, and Parent
fails to provide Purchaser with a notice disputing the Purchaser Valuation on or
before March 15, 2005, Section 6.21(e) shall not apply and Reference Equity
shall be increased by the amount by which the Purchaser Valuation is less than
99.0% of the Sellers Carrying Value.

          (g) Parent shall have five (5) Business Days from the date hereof to
identify and correct any manifest error in Section 6.21(a) of the Sellers
Disclosure Letter.

          Section 6.22 Certain Intellectual Property Matters.  The Parties agree
that Section 6.22 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter is incorporated herein by
reference and shall be

73
 
binding as if set forth herein, and the Parties agree to take all actions set
forth in Section 6.22 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter.

          Section 6.23 Termination of Specified Third-Party Investment Advisory
Agreements.  Prior to the Closing Date, Parent shall cause the Acquired
Subsidiaries to terminate or assign to a Person that is not an Acquired
Subsidiary any agreement by which any Acquired Subsidiary provides investment
advisory or sub-advisory services to any client, other than those agreements
pursuant to which such services are provided to: (i) a registered open-end
management investment company, except as set forth in Section 6.23 of the
Sellers Disclosure Letter, (ii) an Acquired Subsidiary or separate account
thereof, (iii) a Joint Venture or (iv) Parent or its Affiliates (other than any
entity in subsections (i) through (iii) hereof), provided that the agreements
covered by this subsection (iv) shall be transferred or assigned as agreed upon
in the Transition Services Agreement. Section 6.23 of the Sellers Disclosure
Letter lists all of the investment advisory and sub-advisory agreements to be
terminated or assigned pursuant to this provision.

                                   ARTICLE VII
                              CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

          Section 7.1 Conditions of All Parties to Closing.  The respective
obligations of each Party to sell and purchase the Transferred Shares and to
consummate the transactions contemplated hereby are subject to the satisfaction
or waiver, prior to or at the Closing, of each of the following conditions:

          (a) HSR Act.  Any applicable waiting period under the HSR Act with
respect to the transactions contemplated hereby shall have expired or been
terminated.

          (b) Regulatory Approvals.  Other than with respect to the HSR Act, all
(i) authorizations, consents and approvals of, and filings and notifications
with or to any insurance regulatory authority required to be made or obtained
prior to the Closing Date in connection with the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement and the Related Agreements shall have been made or
obtained, as the case may be, and (ii) other authorizations, consents and
approvals of, and filings and notifications with or to, other Governmental
Authorities required to be made prior to the Closing Date in connection with the
execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Related Agreements
shall have been made or obtained, except, in the case of clause (ii), to the
extent that the failure to make or obtain such authorizations, consents,
approvals, filings and notifications would not, individually or in the
aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect, a
Purchaser Material Adverse Effect or a material adverse effect on Parent, and,
in the case of both clauses (i) and (ii), without any conditions, restrictions,
undertakings or limitations which would, individually or in the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to have a Business Material Adverse Effect, a Purchaser
Material Adverse Effect or a material adverse effect on Parent.

          (c) No Injunction.  No Governmental Authority of competent
jurisdiction shall have enacted, issued, promulgated, enforced or entered any
statute, rule, regulation, judgment, decree, injunction, determination or other
order that, in each case, restrains, enjoins or

74
 
otherwise prohibits consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement or makes illegal the consummation of such transactions.

          Section 7.2 Conditions to Obligations of Purchaser to Close.
Purchaser's obligation to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement is subject to the satisfaction or waiver, prior to or at the Closing,
of each of the following conditions:

          (a) Each of the representations and warranties of Sellers contained in
this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and as of the
Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except that those
representations and warranties which address matters only as of a particular
date shall be true and correct as of such particular date), except where the
failure to be so true and correct (without regard to any Business Material
Adverse Effect or materiality qualifications set forth in any such
representation or warranty) would not reasonably be expected, individually or in
the aggregate, to have a Business Material Adverse Effect.

          (b) The obligations of Sellers to be performed on or before the
Closing Date pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall have been duly and
fully performed in all material respects on or before the Closing Date.

          (c) Sellers shall have delivered, or caused to be delivered, to
Purchaser each of the deliverables specified in Section 3.3.

          (d) Purchaser shall have received at the Closing a certificate dated
the Closing Date, which certificate shall be validly executed on behalf of each
Seller by an appropriate executive officer of Parent, certifying that the
conditions specified in Section 7.2(a) and Section 7.2(b) have been satisfied.

          Section 7.3 Conditions to Obligations of Sellers to Close.  The
obligations of Sellers to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement are subject to the satisfaction or waiver, prior to or at the Closing,
of each of the following conditions:

          (a) Each of the representations and warranties of Purchaser contained
in this Agreement shall be true and correct as of the date hereof and as of the
Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except that those
representations and warranties which address matters only as of a particular
date shall be true and correct as of such particular date), except where the
failure to be so true and correct (without regard to any Purchaser Material
Adverse Effect or materiality qualifications set forth in any such
representation or warranty) would not reasonably be expected, individually or in
the aggregate, to have a Purchaser Material Adverse Effect.

          (b) The obligations of Purchaser to be performed on or before the
Closing Date pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall have been duly and
fully performed in all material respects on or before the Closing Date.

          (c) The shares of Purchaser Common Stock comprising the Stock
Consideration issuable to Sellers (including shares issuable upon conversion of
any Purchaser

75
 
Convertible Preferred Stock) shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE,
subject to official notice of issuance.

          (d) Purchaser shall have delivered, or caused to be delivered, to
Parent each of the deliverables specified in Section 3.4.

          (e) Parent, on behalf of Sellers, shall have received at the Closing a
certificate dated the Closing Date, which certificate shall be validly executed
on behalf of Purchaser by an appropriate executive officer of Purchaser,
certifying that the conditions specified in Section 7.3(a) through Section
7.3(c) have been satisfied.

                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                   TAX MATTERS

          Section 8.1 Allocation of Taxes and Indemnification.

          (a) Except as provided in Sections 8.8 and 8.11(b), from and after the
Closing Date, Parent shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold
Purchaser and its Affiliates (which, for purposes of this Article VIII, shall
include the Acquired Subsidiaries) harmless against (i) any liability for Taxes
imposed on or with respect to any of the Acquired Subsidiaries or Joint Ventures
for any taxable period ending on or before the Closing Date, and for the portion
of any Straddle Period ending on the Closing Date (a "Pre-Closing Tax Period"),
(ii) with respect to the Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries, 50% of any Taxes
relating to pesification and any related inflation adjustments (coeficiente de
estabilizacion de referencia) for a Pre-Closing Tax Period; (iii) 50% of the
excess of Taxes imposed on the Acquired Subsidiaries and the applicable Seller
by any United States state or local Tax jurisdiction that does not recognize
Elections filed under section 338(h)(10) of the Code but rather characterizes
such Elections as qualifying under section 338(g) of the Code over the amount of
Taxes that would have been imposed on such Seller had the Election been treated
by such jurisdiction in the manner provided under section 338(h)(10); (iv) any
Taxes imposed on any member of any affiliated group, within the meaning of
section 1504(a) of the Code with which the Acquired Subsidiaries or the Joint
Ventures file or have filed a Tax Return on a consolidated, unitary, affiliated
or combined basis prior to the Closing Date, (v) with respect to any claim by
Purchaser brought prior to the expiration of the survival period provided in
Section 8.6(b), any Taxes and reasonable external advisory and technology
service fees and other reasonable external expenses (but only to the extent
Purchaser, in good faith, uses all internal resources before incurring such
external fees and expenses) attributable to, arising from or related to the
failure of any Annuity Contract, Life Insurance Contract or other tax favored
product issued, assumed, exchanged, modified, sold or marketed by any of the
Acquired Subsidiaries to comply with applicable Tax Law, including all such
Taxes, fees and expenses incurred to correct any such problems related thereto,
to amend, create substitute forms or that are incurred in connection with taking
any other actions necessary to cause such products to comply with applicable Tax
Law, provided, however, that this Section 8.1(a)(v) shall not cover products
with respect to which the issue relating to noncompliance did not exist as of
the Closing Date or that are noncompliant due to (A) changes in (1) Tax Law or
(2) published Internal Revenue Service interpretations thereof, in either case,
occurring after the Closing Date or (B) any actions taken by Purchaser or its
Affiliates after the Closing Date; (vi)

76
 
all Taxes for all taxable periods or portions thereof ending on or before the
expiration of the survival period provided in Section 8.6 (and, solely with
respect to the representations contained in Section 4.18(w), (x) and (y), any
reduction in, or loss of, net Tax Benefits, calculated on a net present value
basis using the principles of Section 8.11(a)) that result from, arise out of or
are based upon an inaccuracy or breach of the representations and warranties
provided under Section 4.18 (without regard to the knowledge qualifier in the
representations contained in Section 4.18(w), (x) and (y) only) or the covenants
and agreements relating to Taxes as provided in Sections 2.4, 3.3, 6.1 and
Articles VIII and X; (vii) any Taxes (other than Conveyance Taxes) resulting
from or attributable to: (A) any of the transactions contemplated by Section
6.14, (B) any transactions contemplated by this Agreement that are required to
occur on or prior to the Closing Date and (C) any actions that are undertaken by
or at the direction of or for the benefit of Parent or Sellers or any Affiliates
thereof (clauses (i) - (vii) hereinafter referred to as the "Pre-Closing Taxes")
and (viii) 50% of all Conveyance Taxes; provided, however, that Pre-Closing
Taxes (x) shall be net of any specific accruals and reserves specifically
established for any such Tax or expense covered in Section 8.1(a)(v) to the
extent reflected on the Closing Date Balance Sheet (not including any amounts of
Deferred Taxes reflected on such balance sheet) but only to the extent Purchaser
or the Acquired Subsidiaries have not pursuant to Section 8.1(g)(ix) or 8.8 made
a payment relating to such accrual or reserve, provided, further, that Parent
shall not be liable under this Section 8.1(a) until the aggregate amount of
Parent's indemnification obligation under this Section 8.1(a) is greater than
$100,000 after taking into account subclause (x) above, at which point Parent
shall be liable for the full amount of such indemnification obligation.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, this Section 8.1 shall not be
interpreted in a manner that would require Parent to indemnify Purchaser and its
Affiliates for any (1) reduction of the amount of the Tax Attributes of the
Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries and (2) Third Party Claims other than claims
for Taxes.

          (b) Except as provided in Sections 8.1(a) and 8.11(b), from and after
the Closing Date, Purchaser shall be responsible for, and shall hold Parent and
its Affiliates harmless against, any Taxes imposed on the Acquired Subsidiaries
and the Joint Ventures (i) for all taxable periods beginning after the Closing
Date or portions of the Straddle Period beginning after the Closing Date (each
such period, a "Post-Closing Tax Period"), (ii) that are attributable to any
action of Purchaser or any of its Affiliates that occurs after the Closing on
the Closing Date (other than actions contemplated by this Agreement or that are
undertaken at the direction of or for the benefit of Parent or Sellers,
including the making of the Elections), (iii) 50% of the excess of Taxes imposed
on the Acquired Subsidiaries and the applicable Seller by any United States
state or local Tax jurisdiction that does not recognize Elections filed under
section 338(h)(10) of the Code but rather characterize such Elections as
qualifying under section 338(g) of the Code over the amount of Taxes that would
have been imposed on such Seller had the Election been treated by such
jurisdiction in the manner provided under section 338(h)(10), and (iv) with
respect to the Applicable Argentina Subsidiaries, 50% of any Taxes relating to
pesification and any related inflation adjustments (coeficiente de
estabilizacion de referencia) for a Pre-Closing Tax Period (clauses (i) - (iv)
hereinafter referred to as the "Post-Closing Taxes"), and (v) 50% of all
Conveyance Taxes.

          (c) For purposes of Section 8.1(a)(v), the Parties agree that
Purchaser shall be permitted to bring a claim (based on Purchaser's
calculations) against Parent even if no Third-

77
 
Party Claim has been brought against Purchaser as of the time Purchaser has
asserted its claim against Parent.

          (d) Straddle Periods.

               (i) For purposes of Section 8.1(a)(i) and 8.1(b)(i), in the case
of Taxes that are payable with respect to a taxable period that begins before
the Closing Date and ends after the Closing Date (a "Straddle Period"), the
portion of any such Tax that is allocable to the portion of the period ending on
the Closing Date shall be:

                    (1) in the case of Taxes that are either (x) based upon or
     related to income, or receipts, or (y) imposed in connection with any sale
     or other transfer or assignment of property (real or personal, tangible or
     intangible), deemed equal to the amount that would be payable if the
     taxable year ended with (and included) the Closing Date;

                    (2) in the case of Taxes that are based upon gross premiums
     deemed equal to the amount that would be payable with respect to the
     premium written as of the Closing Date; and

                    (3) in the case of Taxes imposed on a periodic basis with
     respect to the assets of the Acquired Subsidiaries , or otherwise measured
     by the level of any item, deemed to be the amount of such Taxes for the
     entire period (or, in the case of such Taxes determined on an arrears
     basis, the amount of such Taxes for the immediately preceding period),
     multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of calendar
     days in the period ending on the Closing Date and the denominator of which
     is the number of calendar days in the entire period,

               (ii) To the extent permitted under applicable Law, Parent and
Purchaser shall take all actions reasonably necessary to terminate the taxable
year of the Acquired Subsidiaries on the Closing Date. To the extent any such
taxable year of the Acquired Subsidiaries is terminated on the Closing Date, the
parties hereto agree to cause the Acquired Subsidiaries to file all Tax Returns
for the period including the Closing Date on the basis that the relevant taxable
period ended as of the close of business on the Closing Date, unless the
relevant taxing authority will not accept a Tax Return filed on that basis.

          (e) To the extent that an indemnification obligation of one Party
pursuant to this Section 8.1 may overlap with another indemnification obligation
of such Party pursuant to this Section 8.1, the Party entitled to such
indemnification shall be limited to only one of such indemnification payments.

          (f) Whenever in accordance with this Article VIII Purchaser shall be
required to pay Parent or its Affiliates an amount pursuant to Section 8.1(b),
or Parent shall be required to pay Purchaser or its Affiliates an amount
pursuant to Section 8.1(a), such payments shall be made the later of 30 days
after such payments are requested or 10 days before the requesting party is
required to pay the related Tax liability.

78
 
          (g) Procedures Relating to Tax Indemnification.

               (i) If a claim for Taxes (including notice of a pending audit)
shall be made by any Governmental Authority in writing (a "Tax Claim"), which,
if successful, might result in an indemnity payment pursuant to this Section
8.1, the party seeking indemnification (the "Tax Indemnified Party") shall
notify the other party (the "Tax Indemnifying Party") in writing of the Tax
Claim within 10 Business Days of the receipt of such Tax Claim. If notice of a
Tax Claim (a "Tax Notice") is not given to the Tax Indemnifying Party within
such period or in detail sufficient to apprise the Tax Indemnifying Party of the
nature of the Tax Claim, the Tax Indemnifying Party shall not be liable to the
Tax Indemnified Party to the extent that the Tax Indemnifying Party is
materially prejudiced as a result thereof; provided, that in no event shall such
failure relieve the Tax Indemnifying Party of any other liability and/or
obligation which it may have to a Tax Indemnified Party.

               (ii) The Tax Indemnifying Party may discharge, at any time, its
indemnification obligation under Section 8.1 by paying to the Tax Indemnified
Party the amount of the applicable Tax calculated on the date of such payment.
Subject to clause (vii) below, the Tax Indemnified Party may, at its own
expense, participate in and, upon notice to the Tax Indemnifying Party, assume
the defense of any Tax Claim for which the Tax Indemnifying Party has sole
liability, in the event the Tax Indemnifying Party has not assumed the defense
of such claim by providing written notice of its intent to assume the defense of
such claim to the Tax Indemnified Party within 30 days of the receipt of the
notice required under Section 8.1(g)(i). If the Tax Indemnifying Party does not
assume the defense of any such Tax Claim, the Tax Indemnified Party may defend
the same in such manner as it may deem appropriate, including, but not limited
to, settling, provided, however, that the Tax Indemnified Party shall not settle
such Tax Claim without the prior written consent of the Tax Indemnifying Party
which shall not be unreasonably withheld.

               (iii) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement to
the contrary, Purchaser shall control the conduct of all Tax Claims and any
other claims that may be brought by a Third-Party that relate to whether the
Life Insurance Contracts, Annuity Contracts and/or any other products issued,
assumed, modified, exchanged, administered, marketed or sold by the Acquired
Subsidiaries satisfy the conduct requirements of sections 72, 101, 7702 and/or
7702A (as relevant) of the Code and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder
or any other applicable provisions of Law relating to Taxes; provided, however,
Parent shall control all such Tax Claims if such Tax Claims could result in an
indemnity obligation by Parent under Section 8.1(a).

               (iv) Except as provided in clauses (iii) and (vii) herein, in the
event of a Tax Claim that involves issues (A) relating to a potential adjustment
for which the Tax Indemnifying Party has liability and (B) that are required to
be dealt with in a proceeding that also involves separate issues that could
affect the Taxes of the Tax Indemnified Party, to the extent permitted by
applicable Law, (x) the Tax Indemnifying Party shall have the right at its
expense to control the Tax Claim but only with respect to the former issues and
(y) the Tax Indemnified Party shall have the right at its expense to control the
Tax Claim but only with respect to the latter issues.

79
 
               (v) Except as provided in clause (vii) below, with respect to all
other Tax Claims, the applicable Purchaser or Acquired Subsidiary that is
directly or indirectly affected by such Tax Claim shall have the right to
control the conduct of such proceedings.

               (vi) Except as provided in clause (vii) below, the party that is
controlling the Tax Claim pursuant to Sections 8.1(g)(ii), (iii), (iv) or (v)
(the "Controlling Party") shall provide the Non-Controlling Party with notice
reasonably in advance of, and the Non-Controlling Party shall have the right, at
its expense, to participate in such Tax Claim to the extent allowed by Law
including the right to attend any meetings with a Governmental Authority
(including meetings with examiners) or hearings or proceedings before any
Governmental Authority to the extent they relate to such Tax Claim.

               (vii) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or
the Related Agreements to the contrary, neither Purchaser nor any of its
Affiliates shall be entitled to participate in any Tax Claim relating to any
consolidated, combined, affiliated or unitary Tax Return which includes Parent
or any of its Affiliates; provided, however, that Parent shall notify Purchaser
to the extent any such Tax Claim involves any issues that could materially
adversely effect Purchaser or any of their Affiliates and will inform and
discuss with Purchaser how Parent is addressing and contesting such issues and
will consider and act in good-faith with respect to such issues.

               (viii) Except with respect to any Tax Claim subject to Section
8.1(g)(iii) or (vii), the Indemnifying Party shall have no right to contest any
Tax Claim in accordance with Section 8.1(g) unless:

                    (1) the Tax Indemnifying Party shall have agreed to pay, and
     shall be currently paying, all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by
     the Tax Indemnified Party to contest such Tax Claim including reasonable
     outside attorneys', accountants' and investigatory fees and disbursements;
     and

                    (2) the Tax Indemnifying Party shall have advanced to the
     Tax Indemnified Party, on an interest-free basis (and with no additional
     net after-tax cost to the Tax Indemnified Party), the amount of Tax in
     controversy (but not in excess of the lesser of (A) the amount of Tax for
     which the Tax Indemnifying Party could be liable under this Agreement or
     (B) the amounts actually expended by the Tax Indemnified Party) to the
     extent necessary for the contest to proceed in the forum selected by the
     Tax Indemnifying Party.

               (ix) To the extent not prohibited by applicable Law or the
relevant Governmental Authority, the relevant Acquired Subsidiary shall pay to
Parent on the Closing Date the amount of any liability for current Taxes (other
than Taxes for any Straddle Periods or any amounts relating to Deferred Taxes)
that are reflected on the Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet, provided,
however, to the extent all or a portion of such Taxes cannot be paid under
applicable Law or pursuant to a rule or regulation of a relevant Governmental
Authority, then Purchaser shall pay to Parent such amounts on the Closing Date,
but only to the extent that the amount of such liability for current Taxes
(other than Taxes for Straddle Periods or any amounts relating to Deferred
Taxes) shown on the Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet (before

80
 
any amounts are paid by Purchaser or any Acquired Subsidiary pursuant to
Sections 8.1(g)(ix) or Section 8.8) has decreased (in the case of such current
Tax liability) the Closing Date Purchase Price by such amount. Parent shall pay
Purchaser or Purchaser shall pay Parent, as the case may be, an appropriate
amount reflecting any increase or decrease in the amounts reflected as a
liability for current Taxes (other than Taxes for any Straddle Periods or any
amounts relating to Deferred Taxes) on the Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet
when compared to the Closing Date Balance Sheet.

               (x) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the
contrary, no provision in this Article VIII shall be interpreted in any manner
which will require Purchaser or Parent to pay any amount more than once whether
as Closing Date Purchase Price, as an indemnity or as a set-off or credit
against any amounts required to be paid pursuant to this Agreement (including
any set-offs required under Section 8.1(a) with respect to liabilities accrued
and reserves established for specific Taxes on the Closing Date Balance Sheet
other than any amounts for Deferred Taxes).

          Section 8.2 Tax Returns and Refunds.

          (a) Parent shall prepare or cause to be prepared and timely file or
cause to be filed all required Tax Returns relating to the Acquired Subsidiaries
for any taxable period which ends on or before the Closing Date. Purchaser shall
prepare or cause to be prepared and timely file or cause to be filed all
required Tax Returns relating to the Acquired Subsidiaries for taxable periods
ending after the Closing Date and all required Tax Returns for subsequent
taxable periods; provided, that with respect to any such Tax Returns for a
Straddle Period, such Tax Returns shall be prepared and all elections with
respect to such Tax Returns shall be made (but only to the extent such elections
will have no continuing effect with respect to any Post-Closing Tax Period), to
the extent permitted by Law, in a manner consistent with past practice. Before
filing any Tax Return with respect to any Straddle Period, Purchaser shall
provide Parent with a copy of such Tax Return at least thirty (30) days prior to
the last date for timely filing such Tax Return (giving effect to any valid
extensions thereof) accompanied by a statement calculating in reasonable detail
Parent's indemnification obligation, if any, pursuant to Section 8.1(a). If for
any reason Parent does not agree with Purchaser's calculation of its
indemnification obligation, Parent shall notify Purchaser of its disagreement
within fifteen (15) Business Days of receiving a copy of the Tax Return and
Purchaser's calculation. If Parent agrees with Purchaser's calculation of its
indemnification obligation, Parent shall pay to Purchaser the amount of Parent's
indemnification at the time specified in Section 8.1(f).

          (b) With respect to Tax Returns that Parent is required to file or
cause to be filed pursuant to Section 8.2(a), Parent shall pay or cause to be
paid when due and payable all Taxes with respect to the Acquired Subsidiaries
for any taxable period ending on or before the Closing Date to the extent such
Taxes exceed the amount, if any, specifically accrued or specifically reserved
for such Taxes on the Closing Date Balance Sheet (but not including any amounts
for Deferred Taxes) to the extent not already paid pursuant to Sections
8.1(g)(ix) or Section 8.8.

          (c) With respect to Taxes for Straddle Periods, to the extent that
payments, if any, made by Parent, its Affiliates or any Acquired Subsidiary
prior to the Closing Date to a

81
 
Governmental Authority plus the amount of any liability for current Taxes for
Straddle Periods that are specifically accrued for such Taxes on the Closing
Date Balance Sheet (to the extent not already paid pursuant to Sections
8.1(g)(ix) or Section 8.8 and not including any amounts for Deferred Taxes) is
greater than Parent's allocable portion of such Straddle Period Taxes as
determined pursuant to Section 8.1(a), Purchaser shall pay to Parent the amount
of such excess within 10 Business Days of filing such Straddle Period Tax
Return.

          (d) With respect to a Tax (other than for a Straddle Period) for which
Parent has provided an indemnity under Section 8.1(a), to the extent that the
amount, if any, specifically accrued or reserved for any such Taxes on the
Closing Date Balance Sheet (other than to the extent not already paid pursuant
to Sections 8.1(g)(ix) or Section 8.8 and not including any amounts for Deferred
Taxes) exceeds the amount of such Taxes actually due and payable, Purchaser
shall pay Parent the amount of such excess; provided, that upon such payment the
amounts of any such accruals or reserves will no longer be taken into account
for purposes of this Agreement.

          (e) Except for all refunds or credits of Taxes arising from a Tax
Attribute attributable to the Acquired Subsidiaries that are generated in a
Post-Closing Tax Period, any refunds or credits of Taxes of the Acquired
Subsidiaries, Parent or any of Parent's Affiliates plus any interest received
with respect thereto from the applicable Governmental Authority for any taxable
period ending on or before the Closing Date (including refunds or credits
arising by reason of amended Tax Returns filed after the Closing Date but
excluding any refund or credit included on the Closing Date Balance Sheet, which
shall be the property of Purchaser) shall be for the account of Parent and shall
be paid by Purchaser or any of its Affiliates to Parent within 10 Business Days
after Purchaser or any of its Affiliates receives such refund or after the
relevant Tax Return is filed in which the credit is applied against Purchaser 's
or any of its Affiliates' liability for Taxes. All refunds or credits (i) of
Taxes of the Acquired Subsidiaries plus any interest received with respect
thereto from the applicable Governmental Authority for any taxable period
beginning after the Closing Date, (ii) reflected as an asset on the Closing Date
Balance Sheet (to the extent not already paid pursuant to Section 8.1(g)(ix) and
Section 8.8), and (iii) of Taxes received that result from or are attributable
to a Tax Attribute of the Acquired Subsidiaries that are generated in a
Post-Closing Tax Period, in each case, shall be for the account of Purchaser and
shall be paid by Parent or any of its Affiliates to Purchaser within 10 Business
Days after Parent or any of its Affiliates receives such refund or after the
relevant Tax Return is filed in which the credit is applied against Parent's or
any of its Affiliates' liability for Taxes. Any refunds or credits of Taxes of
the Acquired Subsidiaries for any Straddle Period that are not reflected on the
December 31 Balance Sheet, the Estimated Closing Date Balance Sheet or the
Closing Date Balance Sheet shall be apportioned between Parent and Purchaser in
the same manner as the liability for such Taxes is apportioned pursuant to
Section 8.1.

          (f) With respect to any refund or credit for which either Parent or
Purchaser are entitled pursuant to Section 8.2(c) (the "Refund Recipient"), (i)
at the request of the Refund Recipient, the other party shall and shall cause
its relevant Affiliates (the "Refund Payor") to file for and obtain any refunds
or credits to which the Refund Recipient is entitled under this Article VIII and
(ii) any payment to the Refund Recipient shall be net of any additional amounts
of Taxes that are imposed on the Refund Payor or any of its Affiliates as a
direct result of the Refund Payor or its Affiliate filing for such refund or
credit.

82
 
          Section 8.3 Conveyance Taxes.  Parent and Purchaser shall be equally
responsible for and shall each pay fifty percent (50%) of all documentary,
sales, use, registration, value added, transfer, stamp, recording, registration
and similar Taxes, fees and costs incurred in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, "Conveyance Taxes"). Purchaser and
Parent shall be responsible for jointly preparing and timely filing any Tax
Returns required with respect to any such Conveyance Taxes. Parent and Purchaser
will provide to one another a true copy of each such Tax Return as filed and
evidence of the timely filing thereof. Prior to the filing of such Tax Returns,
Parent and Purchaser shall agree upon the portion of the "Modified Aggregate
Deemed Sales Price" (as defined under applicable Treasury Regulations) to be
allocated to the assets that are the subject of such Tax Returns, which
allocation shall be binding for purposes of Section 8.4.

          Section 8.4 Section 338(h) (10) Elections.

          (a) With respect to the sale and acquisition of each of the Acquired
Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement: (i) Purchaser at its discretion shall
file any Election pursuant to section 338(g) of the Code with respect to the
Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries, (ii) Purchaser and Parent shall, in the manner
described herein, make an Election under section 338(h)(10) with respect to each
of the Acquired Domestic Subsidiaries that is not a Partnership (as defined
below) or identified in Section 4.18 of the Sellers Disclosure Letter (the
"Section 338(h)(10) Companies"). At least 10 days prior to the Closing Date,
Parent and Purchaser shall agree on the form and content of the IRS Forms 8023
(the "Forms 8023") on which any such Election under section 338(h)(10) shall be
made and at or prior to the Closing, Parent shall deliver to Purchaser and
Purchaser shall deliver to Parent properly executed and mutually agreed upon
Forms 8023 with respect to each Section 338(h)(10) Company containing
information then available, which Purchaser shall file or cause to be filed with
the Internal Revenue Service not later than thirty (30) days following the
Closing Date; (iii) Parent, Purchaser and their respective relevant Affiliates
shall jointly and timely make Elections under section 338(h)(10) of the Code and
Elections under any applicable state or local tax Law comparable to the
Elections with respect to each Section 338(h)(10) Company; (iv) with respect to
all Elections, Parent, Purchaser and their respective Affiliates shall, as
promptly as practicable following the Closing Date, cooperate with each other to
take all other actions necessary and appropriate (including filing such forms,
returns, elections, schedules and other documents as may be required) otherwise
to effect, perfect and preserve timely Elections in accordance with the
provisions of section 338 of the Code (including with respect to Elections under
section 338(h)(10), Treasury Regulation Section 1.338(h)(10)-l (and any
comparable provisions of state or local tax Law)) or any successor provisions;
and (v) Parent and its Affiliates and Purchaser and its Affiliates shall report
the sale and acquisition, respectively, of the stock of each of the Acquired
Subsidiaries pursuant to this Agreement consistent with the Elections (and any
comparable elections under state or local tax Laws) made and shall take no
position to the contrary thereto in any Tax Return, or in any proceeding before
any Governmental Authority or otherwise.

          (b) To the extent permissible by or required by Law, Parent, Purchaser
and their respective Affiliates shall cooperate in the preparation and timely
filing of any (i) corrections, amendments or supplements to the Forms 8023
(including Form 8883) and (ii) state or local forms or reports that are
necessary or appropriate for purposes of complying with the requirements for
making any state or local election that is comparable to the Elections.

83
 
          (c) Neither Parent, Purchaser nor any of their respective Affiliates
shall take any action to modify any of the forms or reports (including any
corrections, amendments or supplements thereto) that are required for the making
of the Elections and any comparable elections under state or local tax Law after
their execution or to modify or revoke any of the Elections following the filing
of the Forms 8023 by Parent without the written consent of Parent and Purchaser,
as the case may be.

          (d) Allocation.

               (i) In connection with the Elections under section 338(h)(10) as
described in Section 8.4(a) and consistent with Section 2.4, within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the Closing Date, Purchaser shall provide (or shall
cause its Affiliates to provide) to Parent (i) a proposed allocation of the
"Modified Aggregate Deemed Sales Price" and the "Adjusted Grossed Up Basis"
(each, as defined under applicable Treasury Regulations) among the assets of
each Section 338(h)(10) Company, which allocations shall be made in accordance
with section 338(b) of the Code and any applicable Treasury Regulations
(including Proposed Treasury Regulation Section 1.338-11), and (ii) a complete
set of IRS Forms 8883 (and any comparable forms required to be filed under
state, local or foreign Tax Law) and any additional data or materials required
to be attached to Form 8883 pursuant to the Treasury Regulations promulgated
under section 338 of the Code (collectively, the "Proposed Allocation"). In the
event Parent objects to the Proposed Allocation, Parent will notify Purchaser
within twenty (20) days of receipt of the Proposed Allocation of such objection,
and the parties will endeavor within the next fifteen (15) days to resolve such
dispute in good faith.

               (ii) In the event that Parent and Purchaser resolve such dispute
and agree on the manner in which such allocations should be made, Parent and
Purchaser (and their respective Affiliates) shall (i) be bound by the allocation
determined pursuant to this paragraph for all Tax purposes, (ii) prepare and
file all Tax Returns to be filed with any Governmental Authority (including Form
8883 and Form 8594 filed with the Parties' respective federal income Tax Returns
for the taxable year that includes the Closing Date and any other forms or
statements required by the Code, Treasury regulations, the Internal Revenue
Service or any applicable state or local Governmental Authority) in a manner
consistent with such allocations and (iii) take no position inconsistent with
such allocations in any Tax Return, any proceeding before any Governmental
Authority or otherwise. In the event that any such allocation is disputed by any
Governmental Authority, the party receiving notice of such dispute shall
promptly notify and consult with the other Party concerning resolution of such
dispute.

               (iii) In the event that Parent and Purchaser disagree on the
manner in which such allocations should be made and do not resolve such dispute
within the time provided under Section 8.4(d) (i) such dispute shall be settled
pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.5.

          (e) To the extent allowed by applicable Law, Parent and Purchaser
shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, treat any assets or
shares of stock that are distributed by any of the Section 338(h)(10) Companies
to any Seller pursuant to Section 6.14 as having been distributed in the deemed
liquidation resulting from the 338(h)(10) Election.

84
 
          (f) If Purchaser or any of its Affiliates makes an Election under
section 338(g) of the Code (or any comparable provisions of state or local Tax
Law) with respect to any of the Acquired Foreign Subsidiaries in connection with
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, Parent and Purchaser shall
follow the principles of Treasury Regulation Section 1.338-9(d) and shall
provide to each other all documents reasonably necessary to comply with such
regulation. Neither Purchaser nor any of its Affiliates shall change the taxable
year of any Acquired Foreign Subsidiary which includes but does not end on the
Closing Date without the prior written consent of Parent.

          Section 8.5 Resolution of All Tax Related Disputes.  Except as
otherwise provided, with respect to any dispute or a disagreement relating to
Taxes between the Parties, the Parties shall cooperate in good faith to resolve
such dispute between them; but if the Parties are unable to resolve such
dispute, the Parties shall submit the dispute to the Accountant for resolution,
which resolution shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Parties.
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the fees and
expenses relating to any dispute as to the amount of Taxes owed by either of the
Parties shall be paid by Purchaser, on the one hand, and Parent, on the other
hand, in proportion to each party's respective liability for the portion of the
Taxes in dispute, as determined by the Accountant.

          Section 8.6 Survival of Tax Provisions.

          (a) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary,
the representations and warranties provided by Parent in Section 4.18 shall
survive until the date that is one year after the Closing Date.

          (b) Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary,
Purchaser shall be entitled to bring a claim pursuant to Section 8.1(a)(v) so
long as such claim is made prior to March 31, 2007.

          (c) Except as provided in Section 8.6(a) and (b), any other claim made
pursuant to this Article VIII must be made within the period that is 6 months
after the expiration (giving effect to any valid extensions, waivers and tolling
periods) of the applicable statutes of limitations relating to the Taxes at
issue.

          Section 8.7 Exclusivity.  Article VIII shall govern (i) the retention
of records with respect to each of the Acquired Subsidiaries and (ii) all
indemnification claims, in each case with respect to Taxes.

          Section 8.8 Tax Sharing Agreements.  Any and all Tax Sharing
Agreements between any of the Acquired Subsidiaries and any member of the
affiliated group, within the meaning of section 1504(a) of the Code, of which
Parent is the common parent (the "Parent Affiliated Group") shall be terminated
as of the Closing Date. After the Closing Date, none of the Acquired
Subsidiaries or any member of the Parent Affiliated Group shall have any further
rights or obligations under any such Tax Sharing Agreement, except to the extent
that any outstanding payments need to be made under any such Tax Sharing
Agreement with respect to current Taxes (other than Taxes for Straddle Periods)
shown on the Closing Date Balance Sheet (other than for any such amounts
relating to Deferred Taxes).

85
 
          Section 8.9 Characterization of Indemnification Payments.  To the
extent permitted under applicable Law, any payments made pursuant to Section
2.3, Article VIII or Article X shall be treated for all Tax purposes as
adjustments to the Closing Date Purchase Price and allocated to the relevant
Acquired Subsidiary.

          Section 8.10 Cooperation, Exchange of Information and Record
Retention.

          (a) Purchaser and Parent shall provide each other, and shall cause
their respective Affiliates, officers, employees, agents, auditors and
representatives reasonably to provide each other, with such cooperation and
information relating to the Acquired Subsidiaries (including cooperation
relating to any Audit request) as any of them reasonably may request of another,
including in (i) preparing and filing any Tax Return (including pro-forma Tax
Returns), amended Tax Return or claim for refund, including maintaining and
making available to each other all records necessary in connection with Taxes;
(ii) resolving all disputes and audits with respect to all taxable periods
relating to Taxes; (iii) contesting or compromising any Tax Claim; (iv)
determining a Tax liability or a right to a refund of Taxes; (v) participating
in or conducting any audit or other proceeding in respect of Taxes; (vi)
assessing whether any of the reinsurance contracts of the Business may be
subject to Section 845 of the Code, (vii) determining the identity of all the
consolidated, unified, combined or affiliated groups the Acquired Subsidiaries
or the Joint Ventures have been a member of since 1997 to the extent Parent was
or is not the common parent of such group and (viii) connection with all other
matters covered in this Article VIII. Each such party shall make its employees
available on a mutually convenient basis to provide explanations of any
documents or information provided hereunder.

          (b) At Purchaser's request, Parent and its Affiliates shall cooperate
and make a good faith effort to provide Purchaser with all of the information
possessed by Parent and its Affiliates or that is reasonably obtainable by
Parent and its Affiliates (including access to personnel of the Parent or its
Affiliates) relating to any Acquired Subsidiary or Joint Venture which is
characterized as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and for any
entity in which a Joint Venture or Acquired Subsidiary own an equity interest
that is characterized as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes (the
"Partnerships"), including:

               (i) A list of the Partnerships which the Tax Personnel (after due
inquiry) know to have in place a section 754 election and all information
requested by Purchaser that will assist Purchaser in determining whether a
section 754 election should be made for any of the Partnerships;

               (ii) A list of the Partnerships that will terminate pursuant to
section 708 of the Code as a result of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and all information requested by Purchaser that relate to the Tax
effects such a termination may have for Post-Closing Tax Periods; and

               (iii) A list of all Partnerships in which either an Acquired
Subsidiary or a Joint Venture is allocated amounts under section 704(c) and all
information requested by Purchaser relating to such allocations.

86
 
          (c) Parent and its Affiliates shall allow Purchaser to participate in
the conduct of the review being performed by the Acquired Subsidiaries with
respect to its products and which is the subject of the Aon Report and with
respect to the preparation and drafting of the Aon Report, and Purchaser will
have the right to review and comment with respect to such review and report and
Parent shall be required to take into account and accept all reasonable comments
provided by Purchaser.

          (d) Purchaser and Parent recognize that Parent and its Affiliates will
need access, from time to time, after the Closing Date, to certain accounting
and Tax records and information held by the Acquired Subsidiaries to the extent
such records and information pertain to events occurring on or prior to the
Closing Date; therefore, Purchaser and Parent agree that from and after the
Closing Date, Parent, Purchaser and their respective Affiliates shall (i) retain
and maintain all such records including all Tax Returns, schedules and work
papers, records and other documents in their possession relating to Tax matters
of the Acquired Subsidiaries for taxable periods ending on or prior to the
Closing Date and for the Straddle Period for the longer of (x) the seven-year
period beginning on the Closing Date or (y) the full period of the applicable
statute of limitations, including any extension thereof and (ii) allow the
agents and representatives of each other, upon reasonable notice and at mutually
convenient times to inspect, review and make copies of such records (at the
expense of the party requesting the records) as Parent and Purchaser may deem
reasonably necessary or appropriate from time to time. Parent and Purchaser
agree that the holder of any records, books, workpapers, reports, correspondence
and other similar materials shall provide the other party with written notice
thirty (30) calendar days prior to transferring, destroying or discarding the
last copy of any such materials and such other party shall have the right, at
its expense, to copy or take any such materials; provided, that such other party
provide written notice stating its intent to copy or take such materials no
later than twenty (20) days after having received notice that such materials are
being transferred, destroyed or discarded. Any information obtained under this
Section 8.10(d) shall be kept confidential except as may be otherwise necessary
in connection with the filing of Tax Returns or claims for refund or in
conducting an audit or other proceeding.

          (e) Neither Party nor any of its Affiliates shall be entitled to any
information regarding or a copy of any consolidated, combined, affiliated or
unitary Tax Return which includes Parent or Purchaser, provided, however, that
Purchaser shall be entitled to a copy of a pro forma Tax Return for the relevant
Acquired Subsidiary and all information related thereto.

          Section 8.11 Tax Benefits.  (a) Any indemnity payments made pursuant
to Article VIII shall be adjusted to account for any Taxes imposed upon the
receipt of such payment and shall be made net of any Tax Benefit available to
the recipient of such payment that results from the loss giving rise to such
indemnity payments. For purposes of determining the amount of any Tax Benefit,
the recipient of the Tax Benefit shall be deemed to pay Tax at the highest U.S.
federal income tax corporate marginal rate in effect in the year such
indemnifiable loss is incurred and shall be deemed to realize or utilize any Tax
Benefit in the first taxable year that such Tax Benefit may be realized or
utilized under applicable Law after taking into account all other Tax Attributes
of such indemnified party and the projected utilization of such Tax Attributes
as computed by the recipient of such Tax Benefit. If a Tax Benefit resulting
from an indemnifiable loss is available in multiple Tax years, the amount of
such Tax Benefit for purposes of this Section 8.11(a) shall be the net present
value of all of such available Tax

87
 
Benefits, calculated by using a discount rate equal to the long-term applicable
federal rate for the month in which such indemnifiable loss is incurred.

          (b) Purchaser shall pay to Parent any Tax Benefit arising from (i) any
deduction arising from the exercise of options to acquire Parent stock held by
Business Employees (if any) to the extent the Closing Date Balance Sheet does
not reflect any amounts related to these deductions as an asset of any Acquired
Subsidiary or as a reduction of any liability accrued thereon and (ii) any
payment by Purchaser or its Affiliates of any state guarantee fund assessment as
shown on the Closing Date Balance Sheet (net of any amounts reflected on such
balance sheet as an asset or that otherwise reduced the amount of any liability
reflected on such balance sheet and not including any Deferred Taxes), within 10
days of filing the Tax Return in which such Tax Benefit is claimed. Purchaser
without prior approval from Parent shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates not
to, claim the amount of any items listed in clauses (i) and (ii) above as a
deduction for which Parent would be owed an amount under this Section 8.11(b) on
any Tax Return that Purchaser is responsible for preparing under Section 8.2;
provided, however, that if Parent under applicable Law or administrative
practice is not permitted to report such deductions on any Tax Return that it or
any of its Affiliates is required to file under Section 8.2 and such deduction
is permitted by Law or administrative practice to be reported on a Tax Return
for which Purchaser has filing responsibility under Section 8.2, then Purchaser
shall claim such deduction and pay to Parent the amount required under this
Section 8.11(b) within 10 Business Days of filing the relevant Tax Return.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, Parent will agree to indemnify
Purchaser and its Affiliates against Taxes that relate to any Tax Claim
regarding the taking of any deductions described in clauses (i) and (ii) above,
to the extent Purchaser was required to pay Parent an amount for the use of such
deductions or Parent was able to report such deductions on Tax Returns which
Parent or one of its Affiliates filed pursuant to Section 8.2.

                                   ARTICLE IX
                                   TERMINATION

          Section 9.1 Termination.  This Agreement may be terminated and the
transactions contemplated hereby may be abandoned at any time prior to the
Closing:

          (a) by the mutual written consent of Purchaser and Parent; or

          (b) by either Purchaser or Parent, if the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement are not consummated by the first anniversary of the date of this
Agreement (the "Termination Date"), except to the extent that such failure
arises out of, or results from, a material breach by the Party seeking to
terminate this Agreement of any representation, warranty, covenant or obligation
of such Party contained herein; or

          (c) by either Purchaser or Parent, if there shall have been a breach
by Sellers or Purchaser, as the case may be, of any of the representations,
warranties, covenants or obligations contained herein, which breach would result
in the failure to satisfy any condition set forth in Sections 7.1 or 7.2 (in the
case of a breach by Sellers), or Sections 7.1 or 7.3 (in the case of a breach by
Purchaser), and in any such case such breach shall be incapable of being cured
or,

88
 
if capable of being cured, shall not have been cured within sixty (60) calendar
days after written notice thereof shall have been received by the Party alleged
to be in breach.

          Section 9.2 Special Termination.  In the event that Shortfall
Reference Equity exceeds five hundred million dollars ($500,000,000), then
Parent shall have the right to terminate this Agreement for a period of fourteen
(14) days after delivery of the Audited Financial Statements pursuant to Section
6.19(a).

          Section 9.3 Effect of Termination.  If this Agreement is terminated,
no Party (or any of its Affiliates, directors, officers, representatives or
agents) will have any liability or further obligation to any other Party to this
Agreement, except for any liability arising out of any knowing, willful or
fraudulent breach of this Agreement prior to such termination and except for the
obligations set forth in Sections 6.4(a) through (d) and 11.11, which shall
survive termination.

                                    ARTICLE X
                                 INDEMNIFICATION

          Section 10.1 Survival of Representations and Warranties and Covenants.

          (a) The representations and warranties set forth herein (other than
the representations and warranties in Section 4.18), and the right to commence
any claim with respect thereto, shall survive until March 31, 2007; provided
that the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.11 shall survive
until six months after the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations
and the representations and warranties contained in Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.9,
4.23, 4.25, 4.29, 5.2, 5.3, 5.11 and 5.12 shall survive indefinitely; provided,
however, that in the event written notice of any bona fide claim for
indemnification under Section 10.2(a) or Section 10.3(b) shall have been given
in accordance herewith within the applicable survival period setting forth in
reasonable detail the nature of such claim (including a reasonable specification
of the legal and factual basis for such claim), the representations and
warranties that are the subject of such indemnification claim shall survive with
respect to such claim until such time as such claim is fully and finally
resolved. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, after
Parent delivers the Audited Financial Statements pursuant to Section 6.19,
Parent and its Affiliates shall not have any liability in respect of, or any
indemnification obligations to the Purchaser Indemnified Parties for Losses
arising out of or relating to, the Financial Information.

          (b) This Section 10.1 shall not limit any covenant or agreement of the
Parties contained in this Agreement or the Related Agreements which by its
respective terms contemplates performance after the Closing.

          Section 10.2 Indemnification of Purchaser.  Subject to the terms of
this Article X, from and after the Closing Date, Parent shall indemnify, defend,
save and hold harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and each of their respective
officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives (collectively, the
"Purchaser Indemnified Parties"), from and against any and all Losses resulting
from, arising out of or related to:

89
 
          (a) any breach by Parent of any representation or warranty (without
regard to any Knowledge, Business Material Adverse Effect or materiality
qualifications, except for the representations and warranties set forth in
Sections 4.11(a), 4.13, 4.14(a), 4.14(b), the first sentence of Sections 4.16,
4.20(a) and (b), the first sentence of Section 4.21 and the third sentence of
Section 4.26(b) in this Agreement) (other than the representations and
warranties set forth in Section 4.18) or any of the Related Agreements if and
only to the extent of any representation and warranty in any Related Agreement
that is substantially similar to a representation or warranty in this Agreement;

          (b) the failure by any Seller to perform timely any of its covenants
or agreements contained in this Agreement;

          (c) subject to Section 10.5(d), the Covered Applicable Argentina
Losses;

          (d) subject to Section 10.5(e), the Covered Applicable TIN Losses;

          (e) subject to Section 10.5(f), the Covered Applicable Other Losses;

          (f) subject to Section 10.5(g), the Covered Applicable LTC Losses;

          (g) subject to Section 10.5(h), the Covered Applicable Litigation
Losses; and

          (h) subject to Section 10.5(i), the Covered Applicable Shared Losses.

          Section 10.3 Indemnification of Sellers.  Subject to the terms of this
Article X, from and after the Closing Date, Purchaser shall indemnify, defend,
save and hold harmless Sellers and their respective Affiliates and each of their
respective officers, directors, employees, agents and representatives
(collectively, the "Sellers Indemnified Parties" and together with the Purchaser
Indemnified Parties, the "Indemnified Parties," and each, an "Indemnified
Party") from and against any and all Losses resulting from, arising out of or
related to:

          (a) the ownership or operation of the Business or the Transferred
Shares, including the Applicable Argentina Losses, the Applicable TIN Losses,
the Applicable Shared Losses, the Applicable Other Losses and other Losses
resulting from, arising out of or related to the Applicable Argentina
Subsidiaries or their respective businesses, except to the extent the Purchaser
Indemnified Parties are entitled to indemnification under Section 10.2;

          (b) any breach by Purchaser of any representation or warranty (without
regard to any Knowledge, Purchaser Material Adverse Effect or materiality
qualifications, except for the representations and warranties set forth in
Sections 5.8(a) and 5.10 in this Agreement or in any of the Related Agreements;
and

          (c) the failure by Purchaser to perform timely any of its covenants or
agreements contained in this Agreement.

          Section 10.4 Claims.  Upon receipt by an Indemnified Party of notice
of any action, suit, proceedings, claim, demand or assessment made or brought by
an unaffiliated third party (a "Third Party Claim") with respect to a matter for
which such Indemnified Party is

90
 
indemnified under this Article X which has or is expected to give rise to a
claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall promptly, in the case of a
Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Parent and in the case of a Sellers
Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Parent or Purchaser, as the case may be,
the "Indemnifying Party"), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party
Claim and the basis therefor; provided, however, that any delay or failure by
the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the
Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all,
that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice
shall (i) describe such Third Party Claim in reasonable detail as is practicable
including the sections of this Agreement which form the basis for such claim;
provided that the failure to identify a particular section in such notice shall
not preclude the Indemnified Party from subsequently identifying such section as
a basis for such claim, (ii) attach copies of all material written evidence
thereof and (iii) set forth the estimated amount of the Losses that have been or
may be sustained by an Indemnified Party. The Indemnifying Party shall have
thirty (30) days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and
control the defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such
Third Party Claim and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available
to the Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. If
the Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise or defend any such Third
Party Claim, it shall promptly notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to
do so, and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying
Party and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third
Party Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle,
compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third
Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), unless the relief
consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and
includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases
the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Sellers Indemnified Parties, as
applicable, from all liability with respect thereto. Notwithstanding an election
to assume the defense of such action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall
have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of
such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable
fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (A) Indemnified Party
shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of
interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the
Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (B) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized
the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's
expense. In any event, the Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their
counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this
Article X and keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any
such Third Party Claims, and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and
documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection
with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying
Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own
expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability. If the
Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect
to defend such Third Party Claim or does not defend such Third Party Claim in
good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other
right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to
defend such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnified Party
shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect
to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying
Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

91
 
          Section 10.5 Limitations; Payments.

          (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall not be (i) liable for any amounts for which the Purchaser
Indemnified Parties are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to
Section 10.2(a), unless (x) a claim is timely asserted during the survival
period specified in Section 10.1(a), (y) the amount of Losses, after taking into
account Section 10.6, with respect to the particular act, circumstance,
development, event, fact, occurrence or omission exceeds one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) (aggregating all such Losses arising from substantially
identical facts) and (z) the aggregate amount of all Losses for which the
Purchaser Indemnified Parties are entitled to indemnification pursuant to
Section 10.2(a) exceeds, on a cumulative basis, seventy-five million dollars
($75,000,000) (the "Threshold"), and then only to the extent of such excess, and
(ii) required to make indemnification payments pursuant to Section 10.2(a) to
the extent indemnification payments thereunder would exceed in the aggregate two
billion dollars ($2,000,000,000) (the "Maximum Indemnification Amount");
provided that the limitations in clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply to any
Losses resulting from, arising out of or relating to, the representations and
warranties set forth in Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.9 and any such Losses or
indemnification payments shall not be counted in determining whether the
Threshold or Maximum Indemnification Amount have been exceeded.

          (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Purchaser shall not be (i) liable for any amounts for which the
Sellers Indemnified Parties are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant
to Section 10.3(b), unless (x) a claim is timely asserted during the survival
period specified in Section 10.1(a), (y) the amount of Losses, after taking into
account Section 10.6, with respect to the particular act, circumstance,
development, event, fact, occurrence or omission exceeds one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) (aggregating all such Losses arising from substantially
identical facts) and (z) the aggregate amount of all Losses for which the
Sellers Indemnified Parties are entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section
10.3(b) exceeds, on a cumulative basis, the Threshold, and then only to the
extent of such excess, and (ii) required to make indemnification payments
pursuant to Section 10.3(b) to the extent indemnification payments thereunder
would exceed in the aggregate the Maximum Indemnification Amount; provided that
the limitations in clauses (i) and (ii) shall not apply to any Losses resulting
from, arising out of or relating to, the representations and warranties set
forth in Sections 5.2 and 5.3 and any such Losses or indemnification payments
shall not be counted in determining whether the Threshold or Maximum
Indemnification Amount have been exceeded.

          (c) In determining the foregoing Threshold, the Applicable Argentina
Losses Threshold and in otherwise determining the amount to which Indemnified
Parties are entitled to assert a claim for indemnification pursuant to this
Article X or Article VIII, respectively, only actual losses, and not claims for
lost profits or opportunity costs, except for any items specifically included in
the definition of "Taxes," shall be taken into account, and except in connection
with a Third Party Claim in which damages are awarded to a third party, the
Parties waive any claim to consequential, incidental, special, indirect,
exemplary or punitive damages relating to claims against each other.

92
 
          (d) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall not be liable for any amounts for which the Purchaser
Indemnified Parties are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to
Section 10.2(c), unless the aggregate amount of all Applicable Argentina Losses
actually incurred by Purchaser and its Affiliates (including the Applicable
Argentina Subsidiaries) exceeds, on a cumulative basis, the Applicable Argentina
Losses Threshold, after taking into account Section 10.6, and then Parent shall
be responsible only for 50% (fifty percent) of such excess. In connection with
determining whether the Applicable Argentina Losses Threshold has been exceeded,
Purchaser shall provide to Parent documentation reasonably satisfactory to
Parent to evidence that the aggregate amount of all Applicable Argentina Losses
actually incurred by Purchaser and its Affiliates (including the Applicable
Argentina Subsidiaries) exceeds the Applicable Argentina Losses Threshold. For
purposes of calculating the Applicable Argentina Losses and the Applicable
Argentina Losses Threshold, the amounts of any Losses shall be converted from
Argentinean pesos to dollars based upon the exchange rate applicable as of the
date on which such Losses are paid. In no event shall a Purchaser Indemnified
Party be entitled to indemnification under Section 10.2(a) in respect of the
Applicable Argentina Losses, and any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified
Parties are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 10.2(c)
shall not count towards the Threshold or the Maximum Indemnification Amount.

          (e) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall not be liable to indemnify the Purchaser Indemnified
Parties pursuant to Section 10.2(d), unless TIN shall have been determined to be
insolvent or placed into receivership (an "Insolvency") within five (5) years
from the Closing Date, and then Parent shall be responsible only for fifty
percent (50%) of the Applicable TIN Losses incurred by a Purchaser Indemnified
Party after an Insolvency has been made. In no event shall a Purchaser
Indemnified Party be entitled to indemnification under Section 10.2(d) if an
Insolvency has not been made prior to the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date.
In addition, in no event shall a Purchaser Indemnified Party be entitled to
indemnification under Section 10.2(a) in respect of the Applicable TIN Losses,
and any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties are otherwise
entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 10.2(d) shall not count towards
the Threshold or the Maximum Indemnification Amount.

          (f) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall be responsible only for fifty percent (50%) of the
Applicable Other Losses. In no event shall a Purchaser Indemnified Party be
entitled to indemnification under Section 10.2(a) in respect of the Applicable
Other Losses, and any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties are
otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 10.2(e) shall not
count towards the Threshold or the Maximum Indemnification Amount.

          (g) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall not be liable for any amounts for which the Purchaser
Indemnified Parties are otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to
Section 10.2(f), unless the aggregate amount of all Applicable LTC Losses
actually incurred by Purchaser and its Affiliates exceeds, on a cumulative
basis, the Applicable LTC Losses Threshold, after taking into account Section
10.6, and then Parent shall be responsible only for the amount of such excess.
In connection with determining whether the Applicable LTC Losses Threshold has
been exceeded, Purchaser shall provide to Parent documentation reasonably
satisfactory to Parent to evidence that the aggregate

93
 
amount of all Applicable LTC Losses actually incurred by Purchaser and its
Affiliates exceeds the Applicable LTC Losses Threshold. In addition, Purchaser
shall provide to Parent documentation and other information reasonably requested
by Parent in respect to the calculation of the Applicable LTC Losses Threshold.
In no event shall a Purchaser Indemnified Party be entitled to indemnification
under Section 10.2(a) in respect of the Applicable LTC Losses, and any amounts
for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties are otherwise entitled to
indemnification pursuant to Section 10.2(f) shall not count towards the
Threshold or the Maximum Indemnification Amount.

          (h) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall be responsible only for Applicable Litigation Losses in
excess of the reserves or accruals therefor on the Closing Date Balance Sheet.
In no event shall a Purchaser Indemnified Party be entitled to indemnification
under Section 10.2(a) in respect of the Applicable Litigation Losses, and any
amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties are otherwise entitled to
indemnification pursuant to Section 10.2(g) shall not count towards the
Threshold or the Maximum Indemnification Amount.

          (i) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Parent shall be responsible only for fifty percent (50%) of the
Applicable Shared Losses. In no event shall a Purchaser Indemnified Party be
entitled to indemnification under Section 10.2(a) in respect of the Applicable
Shared Losses, and any amounts for which the Purchaser Indemnified Parties are
otherwise entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 10.2(h) shall not
count towards the Threshold or the Maximum Indemnification Amount.

          (j) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, in no event shall any Indemnifying Party or Tax Indemnifying Party be
obligated under this Article X or Article VIII, respectively, to indemnify any
Person otherwise entitled to indemnity hereunder in respect of any Losses or
Taxes that result from the willful misconduct, bad faith or negligent acts or
omissions of such Person.

          (k) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, in the event that any fact, event or circumstance which results in an
adjustment to the Closing Date Purchase Price (including in calculating the
Final Adjustment Payment and Reference Equity) would also constitute a breach or
inaccuracy of any of Parent's representations, warranties, covenants or
agreements under this Agreement, Sellers and their respective Affiliates shall
have no obligation to indemnify any Purchaser Indemnified Party with respect to
such breach or inaccuracy to the extent of such adjustment.

          Section 10.6 Insurance; Tax Benefits.

          (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to the
contrary, Losses shall be net of any insurance or other prior or subsequent
recoveries actually received by the Indemnified Party or its Affiliates in
connection with the facts giving rise to the right of indemnification. If an
Indemnified Party shall have used its commercially reasonable efforts to recover
any amounts recoverable under insurance policies and shall not have recovered
the applicable Losses, the Indemnifying Party shall be liable for the amount by
which such Losses exceeds the amounts actually recovered.

94
 
          (b) Any indemnity payments made pursuant to Article X by Purchaser to
Parent and any Losses applied to the Threshold, the Applicable Argentina Losses
Threshold or the Applicable LTC Losses Threshold shall be made net of any Tax
Benefit available to Purchaser or any of its Affiliates resulting from the
incurrence or payment of Losses. The amount of any Tax Benefit shall be
determined pursuant to Section 8.11.

          Section 10.7 Remedies Exclusive.  Except in cases of common law fraud
or as otherwise specifically provided herein (including Section 10.9), the
remedies provided in Article VIII and this Article X shall be the exclusive
monetary remedies (including equitable remedies that involve monetary payment,
such as restitution or disgorgement, other than specific performance to enforce
any payment or performance due hereunder) of the Parties from and after the
Closing in connection with any breach of a representation or warranty, or
non-performance, partial or total, of any covenant or agreement contained
herein.

          Section 10.8 Mitigation.  Each Indemnified Party shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts, at the expense of the Indemnifying Party, to
mitigate any claim or liability that an Indemnified Party asserts or is
reasonably likely to assert under this Article X. In the event that an
Indemnified Party shall fail to make such commercially reasonable efforts to
mitigate any such claim or liability, then notwithstanding anything contained in
this Agreement to the contrary, neither Parent nor Purchaser, as the case may
be, shall be required to indemnify any Indemnified Party for that portion of any
Losses that could reasonably be expected to have been avoided if the Indemnified
Party had made such efforts.

          Section 10.9 Tax Indemnification.  Except as expressly provided in
Article VIII or this Article X, this Article X shall not apply to
indemnification with respect to Taxes as provided in Article VIII.

                                   ARTICLE XI
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

          Section 11.1 Notices.  All notices, demands and other communications
required or permitted to be given to any Party under this Agreement shall be in
writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to
have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery
service or, if mailed, two (2) Business Days after deposit in the mail and sent
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested and with first-class
postage prepaid, or in the case of facsimile notice, when sent and transmission
is confirmed, and, regardless of method, addressed to the Party at its address
or facsimile number set forth below (or at such other address or facsimile
number as the Party shall furnish the other Parties in accordance with this
Section) and, in the case of Parent, also included in an email transmission:

95
 
          (a) If to Parent:

              Citigroup Inc.
              399 Park Avenue
              New York, New York 10022
              Attn: Andrew M. Felner, Esq.
                    Deputy General Counsel
              Facsimile: (212) 559-7057
              Email: felnera@citigroup.com

              With a copy to:

              Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
              4 Times Square
              New York, New York 10036-6522
              Attn: Eric J. Friedman, Esq.
              Facsimile: (212) 735-2000

          (b) If to Purchaser:

              MetLife, Inc.
              2701 Queens Blvd. North
              Long Island City, New York 11101
              Attn: James L. Lipscomb, Esq.
              Facsimile: (212) 252-7288

              With a copy to:

              LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P.
              125 West 55th Street
              New York, New York 10019
              Attn: Alexander M. Dye, Esq.
              Facsimile: (212) 424-8500

          Section 11.2 Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York applicable to
agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard
to the conflict of laws principles of such State.

          Section 11.3 Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process.

          (a) Each of the Parties irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the
non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York or, if such court will not accept jurisdiction, the Supreme
Court of the State of New York or any court of competent civil jurisdiction
sitting in New York County, New York. In any action, suit or other proceeding,
each of the Parties irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to
assert by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise any claims that it is not
subject

96
 
to the jurisdiction of the above courts, that such action or suit is brought in
an inconvenient forum or that the venue of such action, suit or other proceeding
is improper. Each of the Parties also hereby agrees that any final and
unappealable judgment against a Party in connection with any action, suit or
other proceeding shall be conclusive and binding on such Party and that such
award or judgment may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either
within or outside of the United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such
award or judgment shall be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such
award or judgment.

          (b) Each Party irrevocably consents to service of process in the
manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 11.1 of this
Agreement. Nothing in this Section 11.3 shall affect the right of any Party to
serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.

          Section 11.4 Entire Agreement.  This Agreement, together with the
Related Agreements and the Confidentiality Agreement and all annexes and
exhibits hereto and thereto, embody the entire agreement of the Parties with
respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements with
respect thereto. The Parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the
complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence
whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this
Agreement.

          Section 11.5 Amendment, Modification and Waiver.  No amendment to this
Agreement shall be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each
Party. Any failure of a Party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement
or condition contained in this Agreement may be waived by the Party entitled to
the benefits thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by
the Party granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict
compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other
failure of compliance.

          Section 11.6 Severability.  If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of any such provision is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect
any other provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such
provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Law,
the Parties waive any provision of Law that renders any provision of this
Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The Parties shall,
to the extent lawful and practicable, use their commercially reasonable efforts
to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the
intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

          Section 11.7 Successors and Assigns; No Third-Party Beneficiaries.
Subject to the terms of this Section 11.7, this Agreement and all its provisions
shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their
respective permitted successors and assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, whether
expressed or implied, will confer on any Person, other than the Parties or their
respective permitted successors and assigns, any rights, remedies or
liabilities; provided that the provisions of Article X will inure to the benefit
of the Indemnified Parties. No Party may assign its rights or obligations under
this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Parties (which
consent may not be unreasonably withheld) and any purported

97
 
assignment without such consent shall be void; provided that Purchaser may,
without the consent of Parent, assign any or all of its rights, but not its
obligations hereunder, to any of its Affiliates (although no such assignment
shall relieve Purchaser of its obligations to Parent or any Purchaser
Indemnified Party hereunder); provided, further, that Parent may, without the
consent of Purchaser, assign any or all of its rights (including its ownership
interest in any Acquired Subsidiary), and its respective related obligations
hereunder, to any of its Affiliates (although no such assignment shall relieve
Parent of its obligations to Purchaser or any Sellers Indemnified Party
hereunder).

          Section 11.8 Publicity.  Except for any notice which is required by
Law or obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with any national
securities exchange, each of Parent and Purchaser hereby agrees that neither it
nor any of its Affiliates will issue a press release or make any other public
statement with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the Related Agreements without the prior written consent of the other Party,
which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Each of Purchaser
and Parent hereby agrees, to the extent possible and legally permissible, to
notify and consult with the other Party at least twenty-four (24) hours in
advance of filing any notice so required.

          Section 11.9 Use of Logos to Announce Transaction.  Parent hereby
grants, or will cause a Seller to grant, a non-exclusive, non-transferable, and
non-sublicenseable license to Purchaser, for a period of one (1) month following
the date hereof, to use its logo in the manner set forth on Exhibit J hereto
solely (with respect to Purchaser) on the website located at
(http://www.metlife.com/) solely for purposes of announcing the transaction
contemplated hereby. The Parties acknowledge and agree that the restrictions
identified under the heading "Acknowledgement of Ownership" in the Licensing
Agreement shall apply to all such usage, and that, in addition to its other
rights and remedies hereunder or at law or in equity, Parent may terminate the
license granted herein upon written notice in the event that Purchaser breaches
or does not comply with such restrictions. Purchaser shall cease all such use of
the Trademark licensed hereunder immediately upon termination or, if not earlier
terminated, no later than one (1) month following the date hereof.

          Section 11.10 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.  TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED
BY LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY
ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

          Section 11.11 Expenses.  Except as otherwise expressly stated in this
Agreement, any costs, expenses, or charges incurred by any of the Parties shall
be borne by the Party incurring such cost, expense or charge whether or not the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Related Agreements shall be
consummated.

          Section 11.12 Specific Performance and Other Equitable Relief.  The
Parties hereby expressly recognize and acknowledge that immediate, extensive and
irreparable damage would result, no adequate remedy at law would exist and
damages would be difficult to determine in the event that any provision of this
Agreement is not performed in accordance with its specific terms or otherwise
breached. Therefore, in addition to, and not in limitation of, any

98
 
other remedy available to any Party, an aggrieved Party under this Agreement
would be entitled to specific performance of the terms hereof and immediate
injunctive relief, without the necessity of proving the inadequacy of money
damages as a remedy. Such remedies, and any and all other remedies provided for
in this Agreement, shall, however, be cumulative in nature and not exclusive and
shall be in addition to any other remedies whatsoever which any Party may
otherwise have.

          Section 11.13 Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed by the
Parties in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile
transmission. Each counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an
original, and all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the
same instrument.

          Section 11.14 No Other Representations or Warranties.

          (a) Subject to Section 10.7, except for the representations and
warranties contained in this Agreement or the Related Agreements, no Seller nor
any agent, Affiliate, officer, director, employee or representative of any
Seller, nor any other Person, makes, or shall be deemed to make, any
representation or warranty to Purchaser, express or implied, at law or in
equity, on behalf of Sellers, and Sellers hereby exclude and disclaim any such
representation or warranty whether by any Seller or any Seller's agents,
Affiliates, officers, directors, employees or representatives or any other
Person, notwithstanding the delivery or disclosure to Purchaser or any of its
officers, directors, employees or representatives or any other Person of any
documentation or other information by Sellers or any of their respective agents,
Affiliates, officers, directors, employees or representatives or any other
Person with respect to any one or more of the foregoing. Purchaser hereby agrees
that notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary,
Sellers are not making any representation as to the adequacy or sufficiency of
any reserves for payment of benefits, losses, claims and expenses under all
insurance policies and contracts.

          (b) Subject to Section 10.7, except for the representations and
warranties contained in this Agreement or the Related Agreements, neither
Purchaser nor any agent, Affiliate, officer, director, employee or
representative of Purchaser, nor any other Person, makes, or shall be deemed to
make, any representation or warranty to Sellers, express or implied, at law or
in equity, on behalf of Purchaser, and Purchaser hereby excludes and disclaims
any such representation or warranty whether by Purchaser or any of Purchaser's
agents, Affiliates, officers, directors, employees or representatives or any
other Person, notwithstanding the delivery or disclosure to Sellers any or any
of their respective officers, directors, employees or representatives or any
other Person of any documentation or other information by Purchaser or any of
its respective agents, Affiliates, officers, directors, employees or
representatives or any other Person with respect to any one or more of the
foregoing. Sellers hereby agree that notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement to the contrary, Purchaser is not making any representation as to the
adequacy or sufficiency of any reserves for payment of benefits, losses, claims
and expenses under all insurance policies and contracts.

          (c) Nothing contained in this Section 11.14 shall affect the Parties'
rights under Section 2.3.

99
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party has caused this Agreement to be duly
executed on its behalf by an authorized officer as of the date first above
written.

                                        CITIGROUP INC.

By: /s/ Raymond J. Quinlan
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Name:  Raymond J. Quinlan
                                            Title: Executive Vice President

METLIFE, INC.

By: /s/ William J. Wheeler
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Name:  William J. Wheeler
                                            Title: Executive Vice President and
                                                   Chief Financial Officer

EXHIBIT B-1

================================================================================

                         DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                                 BY AND BETWEEN

                                 CITIGROUP INC.

                                       AND

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                 AS OF [  ], 2005

================================================================================

TABLE OF CONTENTS

DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

      THIS DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of [  ],
2005, is made by and between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"),
and MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Purchaser").

      WHEREAS, Purchaser and certain of its Affiliates provide insurance and
annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous countries around
the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent, through its Affiliates, has an extensive proprietary
distribution network that distributes, on behalf of insurance companies,
insurance and annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous
countries around the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent and Purchaser have entered into an Acquisition Agreement,
dated as of January 31, 2005 (the "Acquisition Agreement"), pursuant to which
Purchaser will acquire on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
therein, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of certain subsidiaries
of, and the equity interests owned by Parent in certain joint ventures of,
Parent or its Affiliates, including the Travelers Insurers;

      WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
Acquisition Agreement, the parties hereto desire to enter into a distribution
relationship outside the United States pursuant to an International Distribution
Agreement to be entered into on the date hereof and the distribution
relationship inside the United States contemplated by this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to
closing of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and
promises herein contained, the parties do hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I.
                                   DEFINITIONS

      Section 1.1. Defined Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, unless the
context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

      "Acquisition Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.

      "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with such first Person. The term
"control" (including its correlative meanings "controlled by" and "under common
control with") shall mean possession, directly or indirectly, of power to direct
or cause the direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of
securities or partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or
otherwise).

      "Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

"Comparable Distributor" shall mean a distributor using a substantially
similar approach to the marketing, servicing, sales support and overall
distribution of products.

      "Competitive" means (i) the terms, total compensation, customer appeal,
consumer pricing and value, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features
and service standards and metrics of the applicable product, taken as a whole,
are at least equivalent to those of other comparable products, considered as a
group, then distributed by the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor and (ii)
the financial strength rating of the applicable provider is substantially
similar to the other providers (considered as a group) then providing such
comparable products to such Domestic Parent Distributor.

      "Confidential Information" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.2(b).

      "Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor" means each Domestic Parent
Distributor to which a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider of any
Product on the date of this Agreement and such Person's successors and assigns.

      "Domestic Parent Distributor" means (i) any Person Affiliated with Parent
that, as of the date hereof, distributes any Product that a Travelers Insurer
offers in the United States and such Person's successors and assigns and (ii)
from and after the time of its acquisition by Parent or an Affiliate of
Parent, a Target Affiliated Distributor that distributes any life insurance or
annuity products for any Purchaser Insurer pursuant to Section 3.6(b), and such
Target Affiliated Distributor's successors and assigns.

      "Domestic Selling Agreements" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.

      "Exclusive Products" means the Products designated on Schedule 3.2(a) as
being subject to an exclusive relationship.

      "Existing Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(d).

      "First Term" means the five-year period commencing on the date of this
Agreement and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement.

      "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Law" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "Level Playing Field" means, with respect to a product, Parent (i) shall,
and shall cause any Domestic Parent Distributor entering into a Domestic Selling
Agreement with respect to such product pursuant to Section 3.1 to, afford the
same access to its distribution platforms for such product offered by a
Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable) as the access it
affords to comparable products offered by a Third Party Insurer and (ii) shall
not, and shall cause its Affiliates (including the Domestic Parent Distributors)
not to, provide to its Sales Force any compensation or other economic inducement
or benefit for the sale of comparable products sold in a comparable sales
support and compensation framework offered by a Third Party Insurer that

                                        2

are more favorable than the compensation or other economic inducements or
benefits provided to such Sales Force for the sale of such products offered by a
Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable); provided, that a
Level Playing Field may include variations in Sales Force compensation that are
(x) based upon neutral criteria that do not differentiate between product
providers, such as achieving sales volume or persistency objectives, or (y) for
products (including combined product and service arrangements) for which
distributor compensation is negotiated by the provider on a sale-by-sale basis,
such as group retirement products.

      "Licensing Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition
Agreement.

      "Losses" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Marks" shall mean the Parent Distributor Marks, as defined in the
Licensing Agreement in respect of this Agreement, including "PrimElite",
"Blueprint", "Vintage" and "Marquis."

      "New Products" means, (i) with respect to each Domestic Parent
Distributor, any life insurance or annuity product that a Purchaser Insurer is
authorized to offer but was not included among the types of insurance or annuity
products distributed by such Domestic Parent Distributor on the date of this
Agreement and (ii) any products offered by a Purchaser Insurer pursuant to
arrangements contemplated by Section 3.6(b). For avoidance of doubt, (i) the
addition of new features to Products shall not constitute New Products in whole
or in part, regardless of whether any insurance regulatory filing is required in
connection therewith and (ii) the following products shall not be deemed to be
New Products with respect to PFSI: long-term care insurance, prepaid legal
services and individual term life insurance the primary purpose of which is
protection rather than investment.

      "Non-Exclusive Products" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.

      "Parent" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereof.

      "Parent Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Parent Standards and Practices" means the client service and relationship
standards, business practices, ethical standards, customer privacy and
protection policies and general service quality standards, reputational
considerations and industry standards, as determined from time to time by Parent
or any of its Affiliates, provided that such Parent Standards and Practices, to
the extent they relate to a Product or New Product and/or Domestic Parent
Distributor, shall be applied, and changes thereto shall be made, without
discriminating in any material manner against any Travelers Insurer or Purchaser
Insurer, as applicable, relative to all other similarly situated providers of
such Products or New Products distributed by such Domestic Parent Distributor.

      "Person" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "PFSI" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(b).

      "PLP Distributor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b).

                                        3

"Private Label Product" means a life insurance or annuity product
customized for a Domestic Parent Distributor that (i) is branded under the name
of a Domestic Parent Distributor or (ii) is a variable life insurance or
variable annuity contract that offers as an option more than two investment
choices or mutual funds that are advised or managed by Parent or a Parent
Affiliate, including a Domestic Parent Distributor (in the capacity of either an
advisor or sub-advisor). For the avoidance of doubt, a Private Label Product
(whether existing on the date of this Agreement or thereafter) shall be deemed a
Product for all purposes under this Agreement.

      "Products" means the life insurance and annuity products issued by the
Travelers Insurers and distributed through the Domestic Parent Distributors on
the date of this Agreement which are listed on Schedule 3.2(a), and any
Substitute Products distributed in replacement thereof pursuant to Section
3.5(d).

      "Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

      "Purchaser Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.

      "Purchaser Insurer" means any insurance company Affiliate of Purchaser,
including the Travelers Insurers.

      "Sales Force" means those point of sale representatives and their direct
supervisors utilized by Parent, Domestic Parent Distributors or one of their
respective Affiliates whose job responsibility includes the sale or promotion of
Products or New Products offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer,
as applicable).

      "Second Term" means the five-year period commencing upon the expiration of
the First Term and ending on the tenth anniversary of the date of this
Agreement.

      "Substitute Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(d).

      "Target Affiliated Distributor" means any Person Affiliated with Parent
that (i) was an Affiliate of a Target Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) immediately prior to the acquisition of such Target Business by
Parent or an Affiliate of Parent and (ii) is engaged in the business of
distributing financial services products.

      "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

      "Third Party Claim" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Third Party Insurer" means an insurance company that is not Affiliated
with Purchaser.

      "Travelers Insurers" means the Domestic Insurance Companies (as defined in
the Acquisition Agreement) to be acquired by Purchaser pursuant to the
Acquisition Agreement and their successors and assigns, and with respect to a
Substitute Product that is offered pursuant to Section 3.5(d), a Purchaser
Insurer and its successors and assigns.

      Section 1.2 Purposes of Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, Purchaser and Parent agree that this Agreement is
intended to set forth certain

                                        4

principal business terms upon which they will enter into Domestic Selling
Agreements during the Term and that nothing herein creates a Domestic Selling
Agreement.

      Section 1.3. Construction. For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) words
(including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to
include the plural and vice versa, and words (including capitalized terms
defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the
context requires; (ii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of
similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this
Agreement as a whole (including all of the Schedules) and not to any particular
provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Schedule
references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Schedules to this
Agreement, unless otherwise specified; (iii) the word "including" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without
limitation"; (iv) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to
the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified; and (v)
"commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any party of any
material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this
Agreement.

      Section 1.4 Headings. The Article and Section headings contained in this
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II.
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

      Section 2.1. Representations and Warranties of Parent. Parent hereby
represents and warrants to Purchaser as set forth below.

            (a) Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Parent has all necessary corporate power and authority to make,
execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations to be
performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance by
Parent of this Agreement and the consummation by Parent of the transactions
contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate action on the part of Parent. This Agreement has been duly and validly
executed and delivered by Parent, and assuming the due authorization, execution
and delivery by Purchaser, this Agreement will constitute the valid, legal and
binding obligation of Parent, enforceable against it in accordance with its
terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium
or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the
rights of creditors generally and by legal and equitable limitations on the
enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent,
nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will (i) violate
or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or bylaws or
other organizational documents of Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor,
(ii) violate any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of any Law or license
to which Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor is subject or by which it or

                                        5

any Domestic Parent Distributor or any of its or their assets are bound, or
(iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default under any contract to which
Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor is a party or by which it or any
Domestic Parent Distributor or any of its or their assets is bound. The
distribution of any Products offered by a Travelers Insurer and distributed by a
Domestic Parent Distributor on the date hereof does not violate, breach, or
constitute a default under any contract to which Parent or any Domestic Parent
Distributor is a party or by which any of them or any of their respective assets
is bound.

            (d) None of the arrangements by which any Domestic Parent
Distributor distributes any Products on behalf of a Travelers Insurer in force
on the date of the Acquisition Agreement or the date of this Agreement violated
or violates any of the Parent Standards and Practices in effect on such date.

      Section 2.2. Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser hereby
represents and warrants to Parent as set forth below.

            (a) Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Purchaser has all necessary corporate power and authority to
make, execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations
to be performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance
by Purchaser of this Agreement and the consummation by Purchaser of the
transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary corporate action on the part of Purchaser. This Agreement has been
duly and validly executed and delivered by Purchaser, and assuming the due
authorization, execution and delivery by Parent, this Agreement will constitute
the valid, legal and binding obligation of Purchaser, enforceable against it in
accordance with its terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect,
relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and by legal and
equitable limitations on the enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by
Purchaser, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will
(i) violate or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or
bylaws or other organizational documents of Purchaser or any Purchaser Insurer
(other than the Travelers Insurers), (ii) violate any of the terms, conditions,
or provisions of any Law or license to which Purchaser is subject or by which it
or any of its assets is bound, or (iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default
under any contract to which Purchaser is a party or by which it or any of its
assets is bound.

                                   ARTICLE III.
                              DOMESTIC DISTRIBUTION

      Section 3.1. Selling Agreements. In order to effectuate the distribution
arrangements contemplated hereby among the Travelers Insurers (and Purchaser
Insurers, as applicable) and the Domestic Parent Distributors for distribution
of the Products and New Products offered by the Travelers Insurers (and
Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) within the United States, Parent shall cause
the Domestic Parent Distributors, and Purchaser shall cause the Travelers
Insurers

                                        6

(and Purchaser Insurers, as applicable), to negotiate in good faith and enter
into written selling agreements that are consistent with industry practice and
with the principles set forth in this Agreement and that contain terms and
conditions taken as a whole that are no less favorable to the Travelers Insurers
(and Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) and the Domestic Parent Distributors
than the terms and conditions of the selling and selling-related arrangements
existing on the date of this Agreement between the Travelers Insurers and the
Domestic Parent Distributors (the "Domestic Selling Agreements"). For each
Domestic Parent Distributor that distributes a Product for a Travelers Insurer
on the date of this Agreement, a Domestic Selling Agreement for the distribution
of such Product, to take effect on the date of this Agreement, shall be executed
and delivered by such Domestic Parent Distributor and the applicable Travelers
Insurer on or prior to the date of this Agreement. The Domestic Selling
Agreements will contain provisions concerning the periodic readjustment of
compensation as agreed by the parties thereto.

      Section 3.2. Exclusive Distribution Arrangements.

            (a) Parent represents and warrants that Schedule 3.2(a) sets forth a
complete and accurate list of all life insurance and annuity products issued by
a Travelers Insurer and distributed by a Domestic Parent Distributor in the
United States on behalf of a Travelers Insurer on the date of this Agreement,
the identity of each Domestic Parent Distributor that distributes each such
product and whether or not a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider of such
product to such Domestic Parent Distributor.

            (b) During the First Term, each Travelers Insurer shall have the
right to be the exclusive provider in the United States of any Exclusive Product
to any Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor. During the Second Term, each
Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a provider, on a non-exclusive,
Level Playing Field basis, to each Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor of each
Exclusive Product distributed by such Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor on
the date of this Agreement. During the First Term, Parent shall not make any
change in the Parent Standards and Practices (except changes that may be
reasonably appropriate to comply with applicable Law) that would conflict with
the rights granted to the Travelers Insurers under the first sentence of this
Section 3.2(b).

            (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary (including,
without limitation, Section 3.5(d)), prior to the earlier of (i) the end of the
60-day period beginning on the date of this Agreement and (ii) December 31,
2005, (x) Purchaser shall cause the Exclusive Products to be marketed under the
brand name and with such trademarks or trade names (including the identity of
the underwriter of such Exclusive Product) as used on the date of this Agreement
and (y) no Purchaser Insurer shall be permitted to provide a Substitute Product
in place of an Exclusive Product.

      Section 3.3. Non-Exclusive Distribution Arrangements. If any Travelers
Insurer is a non-exclusive provider of a Product to any Domestic Parent
Distributor on the date of this Agreement (the "Non-Exclusive Products"), such
Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a provider of such Product, on a
non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, to such Domestic Parent Distributor
during the Term.

                                        7

Section 3.4. Private Label Products.

            (a) If any Travelers Insurer is the provider of a Private Label
Product to a Domestic Parent Distributor on the date of this Agreement, such
Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be the provider of such Private Label
Product during the Term.

            (b) Subject to the last sentence of this Section 3.4(b), if, prior
to the seventh anniversary of the date of this Agreement, any Domestic Parent
Distributor desires to distribute, as a Private Label Product, a life insurance
product (other than term life insurance) or annuity product that it does not
distribute as a Private Label Product on the date of this Agreement, Parent
shall cause such Domestic Parent Distributor (a "PLP Distributor") to notify
Purchaser no later than the time of notification of any Third Party Insurer. If
the PLP Distributor does not select a Purchaser Insurer as the provider of the
new Private Label Product and the PLP Distributor desires to continue to seek a
Third Party Insurer, as the provider, Parent shall cause the PLP Distributor to
include the Purchaser Insurers in the process for selection of such provider
(whether by formal request for proposals or otherwise) to provide such Private
Label Product prior to selecting a Third Party Insurer. Parent shall cause the
PLP Distributor to entertain in good faith, and on terms no less favorable than
those extended to any other proposed provider, proposals from the Purchaser
Insurers to provide such new Private Label Product. Such PLP Distributor (i)
shall have exclusive discretion in determining the process for selection of, and
the criteria for evaluation of, potential providers of any such Private Label
Product and (ii) shall make a good faith determination of the relative
suitability of proposals from potential providers for satisfying the
requirements of such Private Label Product (it being understood that if such PLP
Distributor determines that a proposal from a Purchaser Insurer satisfies such
requirements, considered as a whole, at least as well as the most favorable
proposal or proposals of the other potential providers, such Purchaser Insurer's
proposal shall be selected); provided, however, that such PLP Distributor shall
not be required to select any such proposal. The rights granted to the Purchaser
Insurers under this Section 3.4(b) shall not apply with respect to any new
Private Label Product if an insurance company not Affiliated with Parent or
Purchaser contacts or approaches the Domestic Parent Distributor, without
solicitation by such Domestic Parent Distributor relating to such Private Label
Product, about developing or the possibility of developing such Private Label
Product. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to Section 3.5, nothing in
this Section 3.4 shall be construed to limit such Domestic Parent Distributor's
ability to offer Products substantially the same as any Private Label Product on
a non-private label basis.

      Section 3.5. New Products; Additional Products; Substitute Products.

            (a) At any time during the Term, (i) Purchaser may propose to a
Domestic Parent Distributor that such Domestic Parent Distributor or one or more
of its Affiliates distribute a New Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer and
(ii) a Domestic Parent Distributor may propose to Purchaser that such Domestic
Parent Distributor or one or more of its Affiliates distribute a New Product
offered by a Purchaser Insurer.

            (b) If, prior to the seventh anniversary of the date of this
Agreement, PFS Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI") desires to offer a New Product
on an exclusive basis, Parent shall cause PFSI to notify Purchaser no later than
the time of any notification of any Third Party

                                        8

Insurer. If PFSI does not select a Purchaser Insurer as the provider of such New
Product and PFSI desires to continue to seek a Third Party Insurer, as the
provider, Parent shall cause PFSI to include the Purchaser Insurers in the
process for selection of such provider (whether by formal request for proposals
or otherwise). Parent shall cause PFSI to entertain in good faith, and on terms
no less favorable than those extended to any other proposed provider, proposals
from the Purchaser Insurers to provide such New Product. PFSI (i) shall have
exclusive discretion in determining the process for selection of, and the
criteria for evaluation of, potential providers of any such New Product and (ii)
shall make a good faith determination of the relative suitability of proposals
from potential providers for satisfying the requirements of such New Product (it
being understood that if PFSI determines that a proposal from a Purchaser
Insurer satisfies such requirements, considered as a whole, at least as well as
the most favorable proposal or proposals of the other potential providers, such
Purchaser Insurer's proposal shall be selected); provided, however, that PFSI
shall not be required to select any such proposal. The rights granted to the
Purchaser Insurers under this Section 3.5(b) shall not apply with respect to a
New Product if an insurance company not Affiliated with Purchaser or Parent
contacts or approaches PFSI, without solicitation by PFSI relating to such New
Product, about providing or the possibility of providing such New Product to be
provided on an exclusive basis.

            (c) If, during the Term, any Domestic Parent Distributor proposes to
issue a formal written request for proposals to any Third Party Insurer that
involves any life insurance or annuity product that a Purchaser Insurer is
authorized to offer, Parent shall, and shall cause such Domestic Parent
Distributor to, give notice thereof to Purchaser and entertain proposals from
the Purchaser Insurers to be a provider to such Domestic Parent Distributor of
such product. Parent shall cause such Domestic Parent Distributors to consider
such proposals in good faith and on terms no less favorable than the terms
extended to any other proposed provider.

            (d) At any time during the Term, Purchaser may propose in writing
that any Purchaser Insurer offer, in place of any Product then offered by a
Travelers Insurer through a Domestic Parent Distributor (an "Existing Product"),
a substitute product and if (i) such Purchaser Insurer has been assigned a
financial strength rating of at least Aa3 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (or
any successor thereto) or at least AA- by Standard and Poor's (or any successor
thereto) and (ii) such substitute product is substantially the same as the
Existing Product in the terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler
coverage, training and support, features and service standards and metrics (a
"Substitute Product"), then Parent shall cause such Domestic Parent Distributor
to distribute such Substitute Product in place of the Existing Product. The
Purchaser Insurer that offers such Substitute Product shall have the same rights
under this Agreement with respect to the Substitute Product as the Travelers
Insurer that offered the Existing Product possessed with respect to the Existing
Product. By way of illustration and without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, if the Travelers Insurer was entitled to provide the Existing Product
on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through the Domestic Parent
Distributor, the Purchaser Insurer shall be entitled to provide the Substitute
Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through such Domestic
Parent Distributor in place of such Existing Product. Parent shall cause the
applicable Domestic Parent Distributor and Purchaser shall cause the Purchaser
Insurer to enter into a Domestic Selling Agreement with respect to the
Substitute Product that is substantially the same as the Domestic Selling
Agreement with respect to the Existing Product. The Purchaser Insurer providing
the Substitute Product shall bear reasonable costs incurred by the applicable
Domestic Parent Distributor in

                                        9

connection with or arising out of the replacement of the Existing Product with
the Substitute Product.

      Section 3.6. Acquisitions.

            (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, but
subject to Section 3.6(b), neither Parent nor any Domestic Parent Distributor
shall be (i) deemed to be in violation of this Agreement or any Domestic Selling
Agreement or (ii) obligated hereunder or under any Domestic Selling Agreement to
take any action (including to make any adjustment to commissions, economic
inducements or other benefits for the Sales Force), if such violation would
arise, or such action would be required to be taken, solely as a result of
Parent or one of its Affiliates acquiring assets or a business of any Person
engaged in the distribution of financial services products following the date of
this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing in this Section 3.6 (a) shall
limit or restrict any obligations that Parent or any Domestic Parent Distributor
has to distribute on an exclusive basis a Product or a New Product offered by a
Purchaser Insurer if such Purchaser Insurer has the right under this Agreement
or any Domestic Selling Agreement to be the exclusive provider of such Product
or New Product to such Domestic Parent Distributor.

            (b) If, at any time prior to the seventh anniversary of the date of
this Agreement, (i) Parent acquires a Target Business (as defined in the
Acquisition Agreement), of which the net revenues and net earnings (in each
case, calculated in a manner consistent with Section 6.17(a)(x) of the
Acquisition Agreement, and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding realized
gains) derived from a Competitive Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) are more than a de minimis amount, and (ii) Parent or its Affiliates
are permitted to acquire such Target Business pursuant to Sections 6.17(a)(x) or
6.17(a)(xi) of the Acquisition Agreement, then Purchaser through the Purchaser
Insurers shall have the right during the remainder of such seven-year period to
be a provider to each Target Affiliated Distributor, if any, on a non-exclusive
Level Playing Field basis, of any life insurance or annuity product that is
distributed by such Target Affiliated Distributor on a non-exclusive basis
either immediately before or following such acquisition; provided, that such
right shall be subject to any applicable contractual or other restrictions by
which such Target Affiliated Distributor is bound.

      Section 3.7. No Obligation. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this
Agreement or any Domestic Selling Agreement shall (i) impose upon any Purchaser
Insurer any obligation to distribute any Products or New Products offered by a
Purchaser Insurer through the Domestic Parent Distributors, (ii) impose upon
Parent or its Affiliates any obligation to provide to its or their employees any
Product or New Product issued by Purchaser or any Travelers Insurers, (iii)
restrict the ability of Purchaser or Parent or any of their Affiliates from
acquiring or disposing of any assets of, or reorganizing or consolidating, any
business, subject to the proviso in Section 3.6(a) or (iv) restrict the ability
of any Purchaser Insurer to distribute insurance or annuity products through
Persons other than Domestic Parent Distributors. Subject to Section 3.6(b),
nothing in this Agreement shall impose upon any Affiliate of Parent that becomes
an Affiliate of Parent after the date of this Agreement any obligation to
distribute any Product or New Product on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer. For the
avoidance of doubt, in the event any Domestic Parent Distributor ceases to be an
Affiliate of Parent, Parent's obligations under this Agreement with respect to
such Domestic Parent Distributor shall no longer be applicable.

                                       10

ARTICLE IV.
                               ACCESS AND BRANDING

      Section 4.1. Access.

            (a) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, a Domestic
Exclusive Parent Distributor permits wholesalers or Product representatives of
the Travelers Insurers to have access to such Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor, including its Sales Force, sales offices or sales, education or
training meetings that involve the promotion of Products made available by a
Travelers Insurer for distribution by such Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor, Parent shall, during the First Term, cause such Domestic Exclusive
Parent Distributor to continue to permit such access on the same terms and
conditions as on the date hereof in a manner consistent with applicable Law and
the Parent Standards and Practices. The applicable Purchaser Insurer providing
the Exclusive Products shall continue during the First Term to maintain
wholesaler coverage, training, and sales support to the Domestic Exclusive
Parent Distributor on terms and conditions that are no less favorable than those
provided by the applicable Travelers Insurer to such Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor on the date of this Agreement.

            (b) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, a Domestic
Parent Distributor (other than a Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor) permits
wholesalers, Product representatives or bank marketing representatives of the
Travelers Insurers to have access to such Domestic Parent Distributor, including
its Sales Force, bank branches, sales offices or sales, education or training
meetings that involve the promotion of Products made available by a Travelers
Insurer for distribution by such Domestic Parent Distributor, in a manner
consistent with applicable Law and with the Parent Standards and Practices,
Parent shall, until the third anniversary of the date hereof, cause such
Domestic Parent Distributor to provide such access on terms and conditions that
are no less favorable than those generally applicable to any Third Party
Insurer.

      Section 4.2. Branding; Use of Names; Confidential Information; Approval of
Certain Materials.

            (a) Unless otherwise provided in a Domestic Selling Agreement and,
in all cases in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of the
Licensing Agreement, during the Term, Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser
Insurers providing, and Parent shall cause all Domestic Parent Distributors
distributing, Products (including Private Label Products in respect of which any
Purchaser Insurer is the provider on the date of this Agreement) to cause such
Products distributed through a Domestic Parent Distributor to be offered and
branded utilizing the Marks that relate to each such Product as of the date of
this Agreement; provided that Purchaser and the Purchaser Insurers shall have
been granted adequate rights to use the Marks under the Licensing Agreement; and
provided, further, that the parties hereto agree that any trademark or trade
name on such product shall be appropriately altered to reflect any change to the
trademark or trade name of the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor and,
subject to Section 3.2(c), in the case of a Substitute Product, to reflect any
change that is required by Law as a result of the change in the issuer of such
Substitute Product. To the extent that a Private Label Product is distributed by
a PLP Distributor on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer after the date

                                       11

of this Agreement in accordance with Section 3.4, then Parent shall cause such
PLP Distributor and Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser Insurers providing such
Private Label Product to cause such Private Label Product to be offered and
branded using such trademarks or trade names as may be applicable to such
Private Label Product by such PLP Distributor, provided that Purchaser and the
applicable Purchaser Insurers shall own or shall have been granted adequate
rights to use such trademarks or trade names.

            (b) During the Term of this Agreement, the Travelers Insurers and,
as applicable, the Purchaser Insurers will have access to confidential
information and other proprietary information ("Confidential Information") of
Parent and its Affiliates. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited
to, the names, addresses, telephone numbers and social security numbers of
applicants for, purchasers of and other customers of Products and New Products
as well as other identity and private information in respect of Parent's or its
Affiliates' customers, employees, representatives, and agents. Confidential
Information shall not include any customer information (i) that was previously
known by a Purchaser Insurer from a source other than any Domestic Parent
Distributor without obligations of confidence; or (ii) that was or is rightfully
received by a Purchaser Insurer from a third party without obligations of
confidence to any Domestic Parent Distributor or from publicly available sources
without obligations of confidence to any Domestic Parent Distributor; or (iii)
that was or is developed by means independent of information obtained from any
Domestic Parent Distributor. As a condition to such access, neither Purchaser
nor any Purchaser Insurer shall use, copy or disclose such Confidential
Information in any manner (including without limitation, to sell or cross-sell
their products). Confidential Information may be used to service Products and
New Products, including, as appropriate, to accept additional contributions and
premium for and to modify, add, or exchange coverage to any Product or New
Product purchased by a policy owner who purchased from a Domestic Parent
Distributor. Purchaser and its Affiliates shall take all appropriate action to
ensure the protection, confidentiality and security of such Confidential
Information. The Purchaser and its Affiliates acknowledge and agree that this
Confidential Information is the property of the Domestic Parent Distributors.
The parties also understand that the Purchaser Insurers may respond to inquiries
from holders of Products or New Products concerning other Purchaser Insurer
products and services, provided there was no solicitation of such inquiry using
Confidential Information. The parties also agree that this Section 4.2(b) shall
not apply to individuals with whom Purchaser or the Purchaser Insurers have a
pre-existing relationship other than through a Domestic Parent Distributor.

            (c) (i) Any marketing, training or other materials to be made
available by any Purchaser Insurer to any Domestic Parent Distributor's Sales
Force or customers in connection with Products and New Products (other than
ordinary course communications to policyholders and contract holders) shall be
made available only with the prior consent (which shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) of the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor; provided
that all such materials that are used by the Travelers Insurers in connection
with the distribution of Products through the Domestic Parent Distributors on
the date of this Agreement shall not require any such consent. In the event that
the applicable Purchaser Insurer or the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor
determines to discontinue the use of any such materials, the parties shall
cooperate with the applicable Purchaser Insurer to ensure that such use is
discontinued by such Domestic Parent Distributor's Sales Force.

                                       12

(ii) Any marketing, training or other materials prepared by a
      Domestic Parent Distributor and to be made available by such Domestic
      Parent Distributor to its Sales Force or customers that describes any
      Purchaser Insurer or any of its Affiliates or any insurance or annuity
      product offered by any of them may be made available only with the prior
      consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of the
      applicable Purchaser Insurer; provided that all such materials that are
      used by the Domestic Parent Distributors in connection with the
      distribution of Products on the date of this Agreement shall not require
      any such consent. In the event that the applicable Purchaser Insurer or
      the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor determines to discontinue the
      use of any such materials, the parties shall cooperate with the applicable
      Domestic Parent Distributor to ensure that such use is discontinued by its
      Sales Force.

                                   ARTICLE V.
                    TERM OF THE AGREEMENT; CERTAIN CONDITIONS

      Section 5.1. Term. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") will commence
on the date of this Agreement and shall continue until the tenth anniversary of
the date of this Agreement; provided, however, the expiration of this Agreement
shall not reduce or curtail the term of any Domestic Selling Agreement that
extends beyond the end of the Term.

      Section 5.2. Survival. Upon expiration of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Section 5.2 and Article VI and Article VII shall survive without
modification.

      Section 5.3. Certain Conditions.

            (a) Subject to Section 5.3(b), but notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary in this Agreement or in any Domestic Selling Agreement, no Domestic
Parent Distributor shall be required to enter into (and may refuse to enter
into) a Domestic Selling Agreement in respect of, or have any obligation to
offer (and may immediately cease to offer), any Product or New Product offered
by a Purchaser Insurer, if:

                  (i) Parent reasonably determines that such Product or New
      Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer is not Competitive; provided,
      however, that this clause (i) shall not apply to any Exclusive Product
      during the First Term;

                  (ii) any change is made or any feature is added to such
      Product or New Product (or a fund or investment option therein) without
      Parent's or the applicable Domestic Parent Distributor's prior written
      approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

                  (iii) such Product or New Product or the offering thereof
      (including on an exclusive basis) conflicts with:

                        (x) applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance
            procedures or restrictions in connection therewith;

                        (y) any material provision of any existing agreement by
            which Parent or its Affiliates or any of their respective assets or
            properties are bound;

                                       13

provided that this clause (y) shall not apply to any Product offered by a
      Travelers Insurer and distributed by a Domestic Parent Distributor
      pursuant to an arrangement in effect on the date hereof or any Substitute
      Products distributed in replacement thereof pursuant to Section 3.5(d),
      unless the violation is caused by or relates to (1) any difference between
      the Substitute Product and the Existing Product it replaced, or (2) solely
      the fact of the replacement of the Existing Product with the Substitute
      Product; or

                  (z) the Parent Standards and Practices, provided that in the
      case of the application of this clause (z) during the First Term to any
      Exclusive Product following a change in the Parent Standards and
      Practices, any such change in the Parent Standards and Practices shall be
      in accordance with the third sentence of Section 3.2(b);

            (iv) such Product is an Exclusive Product and (x) any Purchaser
Insurer provides to any Comparable Distributor a product that is substantially
the same as such Exclusive Product and (y) the terms, total compensation,
consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features and
service standards and metrics of such product, taken as a whole, are more
favorable than the terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler
coverage, training and support, features and service standards and metrics of
such Exclusive Product, taken as a whole; provided, however, that this Section
5.3(a)(iv) shall not apply to any distribution arrangements of any Purchaser
Insurer in effect on the date of this Agreement;

            (v) with respect to any Exclusive Product, the financial strength
rating assigned to the provider of such Exclusive Product falls below both (x)
A1 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (or any successor thereto) and (y) A+ by
Standard & Poor's (or any successor thereto); or

            (vi) with respect to any Exclusive Product, a federal, state or
local domestic, foreign or supranational governmental, regulatory or
self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or other
governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, with jurisdiction over the
Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor requests or mandates that the Domestic
Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer offer the Exclusive
Product on an exclusive basis; provided, however, in the case of such a request
(but not a mandate), the Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor shall provide
prompt notice of any such request to the Purchaser Insurer providing the
Exclusive Product, and shall consult and cooperate with such Purchaser Insurer
in its efforts to obtain from such regulatory agency an agreement that permits
the Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor to continue to distribute such
Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis. If such an agreement is reached, the
Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor shall continue to distribute the Exclusive
Product on an exclusive basis in accordance with the terms of Section 3.2. If
such an agreement cannot be reached, the Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor
shall distribute the Exclusive Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field
basis, for the remainder of the Term in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement.

                                       14

(b) Prior to any Domestic Parent Distributor's exercising its right
under Section 5.3(a) not to enter into a Domestic Selling Agreement with respect
to any Product or New Product or to cease offering any Product or New Product,
such Domestic Parent Distributor shall provide written notice to Purchaser,
containing a reasonably detailed statement of the grounds for such exercise, and
shall afford Purchaser a period of 30 days in which to cure the deficiency
unless the deficiency is not capable of being cured. Such Domestic Parent
Distributor shall consult and cooperate with Purchaser as reasonably requested
during such period in identifying possible cures. If Purchaser is able to
propose a cure that is reasonably satisfactory to such Domestic Parent
Distributor before the expiration of such period, such Domestic Parent
Distributor shall not be entitled to exercise its right to refuse to enter into
a Domestic Selling Agreement or to cease offering the applicable Product or New
Product, provided that if any cure involves a change in such Product's or New
Product's terms or features that requires filing with or approval (or
non-disapproval) by any regulatory authority, such Domestic Parent Distributor
shall, prior to exercising such right, afford Purchaser such further period of
time as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish such filing or obtain such
approval or non-disapproval. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Section 5.3(b), no Domestic Parent Distributor shall be required to continue to
distribute any Product or New Product pending any cure period, if the offering
of such Product or New Product would reasonably be expected to (i) violate
applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance procedures or restriction in
connection therewith, (ii) conflict with the Parent Standards and Practices
insofar as they relate to reputational considerations or industry standards or
(iii) in the case of an Exclusive Product under Section 5.3(a)(vi) above,
conflict with a mandate from a federal, state or local domestic, foreign or
supranational governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory authority, agency,
court, tribunal, commission or other governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory
entity, with jurisdiction over the Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor that
such Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer offer the
Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis; provided, in the case of this clause
(iii), such Domestic Exclusive Parent Distributor shall distribute the Exclusive
Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, for the remainder of the
Term in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

                                  ARTICLE VI.
                                INDEMNIFICATION

      Section 6.1. Indemnification of Parent. Purchaser will defend and hold
harmless Parent and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Parent Indemnified Parties") from and against any
losses, liabilities, damages (including consequential damages), actions, claims,
demands, regulatory investigations, settlements, judgments and other expenses
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses ("Losses")
which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Parent Indemnified Party
and which arise from or are related to Purchaser's breach of any representation
or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is available under
the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty contained in this
Agreement.

      Section 6.2. Indemnification of Purchaser. Parent will defend and hold
harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Purchaser Indemnified Parties") from and against any
Losses which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Purchaser
Indemnified Party and which arise from or are related to

                                       15

Parent's breach of any representation or warranty (except to the extent
indemnification therefor is available under the Acquisition Agreement) or any
covenant, condition or duty contained in this Agreement.

      Section 6.3. Indemnity Provisions in Domestic Selling Agreements. Each
Domestic Selling Agreement shall provide indemnification for Losses asserted
against each of the parties thereto in respect of a failure of the other party
to comply with applicable Law and a breach by such other party of any
representation, warranty, covenant, condition or duty contained in such Domestic
Selling Agreement.

      Section 6.4. Indemnification Procedures. Upon receipt by a Parent
Indemnified Party or a Purchaser Indemnified Party (each, an "Indemnified
Party"), as the case may be, of notice of any action, suit, proceedings, claim,
demand or assessment made or brought by an unaffiliated third party (a "Third
Party Claim") with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is
indemnified under this Article VI which has or is expected to give rise to a
claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall promptly, in the case of a
Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Parent and in the case of a Parent
Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Purchaser or Parent, as the case may be,
the "Indemnifying Party"), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party
Claim and the basis therefor; provided, however, that any delay or failure by
the Indemnified Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the
Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all,
that it is prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice
shall (i) describe such Third Party Claim in reasonable detail as is practicable
including the sections of this Agreement, which form the basis for such claim;
provided that the failure to identify a particular section in such notice shall
not preclude the Indemnified Party from subsequently identifying such section as
a basis for such claim, (ii) attach copies of all material written evidence
thereof and (iii) set forth the estimated amount of the Losses that have been or
may be sustained by an Indemnified Party. The Indemnifying Party shall have 30
days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the
defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party
Claim and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the
Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. If the
Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise or defend any such Third Party
Claim, it shall promptly notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so,
and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party
and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party
Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle,
compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third
Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), unless the relief
consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and
includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases
the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Parent Indemnified Parties, as
applicable, from all liability with respect thereto. Notwithstanding an election
to assume the defense of such action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall
have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of
such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable
fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (A) Indemnified Party
shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of
interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the
Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (B) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized
the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's
expense. In any event, the Indemnified

                                       16

Party and Indemnifying Party and their counsel shall cooperate in the defense of
any Third Party Claim subject to this Article VI and keep such Persons informed
of all developments relating to any such Third Party Claims, and provide copies
of all relevant correspondence and documentation relating thereto. All costs and
expenses incurred in connection with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall
be borne by the Indemnifying Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall
have the right at its own expense to participate in the defense of such asserted
liability. If the Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party
Claim does not elect to defend such Third Party Claim or does not defend such
Third Party Claim in good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in
addition to any other right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying
Party's expense, to defend such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the
Indemnified Party shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any
liability with respect to, any such Third Party Claim without the written
consent of the Indemnifying Party (which consent will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).

      Section 6.5. General.

            (a) The provisions of this Article VI will survive the expiration of
this Agreement.

            (b) The rights and remedies provided herein shall be cumulative and
in addition to all other rights and remedies available to the parties at law or
equity, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any thereof by any
party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such
rights or remedies by such party. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence,
nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent any party from seeking
indemnification under any applicable provision of the Acquisition Agreement, or
any of the other Related Agreements (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement),
provided that no party shall obtain duplicative recoveries.

                                  ARTICLE VII.
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 7.1. Equitable Remedies. The parties hereto acknowledge that money
damages may not be an adequate remedy for violations of this Agreement and that
any party, in addition to any other rights and remedies which the parties may
have hereunder or at law or in equity, may, in its sole discretion, apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance or injunction or such
other relief as such court may deem just and proper in order to enforce this
Agreement or prevent any violation hereof and, to the extent permitted by
applicable Law, each party waives any objection to the imposition of such
relief.

      Section 7.2. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of any such provision is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect
any other provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such
provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Law,
the parties waive any provision of Law that renders any provision of this
Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The parties shall,
to the extent lawful and practicable, use their commercially reasonable efforts
to enter into arrangements to reinstate the

                                       17

intended benefits, net of the intended burdens, of any such provision held
invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

      Section 7.3. Further Assurance and Assistance. Parent and Purchaser agree
that each will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, execute and
deliver any and all documents, and take such further acts, in addition to those
expressly provided for herein, that may be necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Agreement.

      Section 7.4. Notices. All notices, demands and other communications
required or permitted to be given to any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to
have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery
service or, if mailed, two (2) Business Days (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) after deposit in the mail and sent certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested and with first-class postage prepaid, or in the case of
facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of
method, addressed to the party at its address or facsimile number set forth
below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the party shall furnish
the other parties in accordance with this Section 7.4):

                  (a)     If to Parent:

                          Citigroup Inc.
                          399 Park Avenue
                          New York, New York
                          Attn: Andrew M. Felner
                                Deputy General Counsel
                          Facsimile: (212) 559-7057
                          e-mail: felnera@citigroup.com

                          With a copy to:

                          Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
                          4 Times Square
                          New York, New York  10036-6522
                          Attn:  Eric J. Friedman, Esq.
                          Facsimile:  (212) 735-2000

                  (b)     If to Purchaser:

                          MetLife, Inc.
                          2701 Queens Plaza North
                          Long Island City, New York  11101
                          Attn: James L. Lipscomb
                                Executive Vice President and General Counsel
                          Facsimile:  (212) 252-7288

                                       18

With a copy to:

                          LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae L.L.P.
                          125 West 55th Street
                          New York, New York  10019
                          Attn:  Alexander M. Dye, Esq.
                          Facsimile:  212-424-8500

      Section 7.5. Successors and Assigns. Subject to the terms of this Section
7.5, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, provided that the
Parent Indemnified Parties and the Purchaser Indemnified Parties shall be
intended third-party beneficiaries of Article VI. No party hereto may assign its
rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of
the other party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld) and any
purported assignment without such consent shall be void.

      Section 7.6. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York applicable to
agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard
to the conflict of laws principles of such State.

      Section 7.7. Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process.

            (a) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally
submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not accept
jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of
competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any
action, suit or other proceeding, each of the parties hereto irrevocably and
unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense
or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above
courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the
venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each of the parties
hereto also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a
party hereto in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding shall be
conclusive and binding on such party and that such award or judgment may be
enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the
United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall
be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.

            (b) Each party irrevocably consents to service of process in the
manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 7.4 of this
Agreement. Nothing in this Section 7.7 shall affect the right of any party
hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.

      Section 7.8. Frustration. Parent and Purchaser agree that neither party
shall take any action that would reasonably be expected to frustrate the intent
of this Agreement nor shall any party omit to take any action, the omission of
which would reasonably be expected to frustrate the intent of this Agreement.

                                       19

Section 7.9. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with all schedules
hereto, embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements with respect thereto. The
parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive
statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be
introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.

      Section 7.10. Amendment and Waiver. No amendment to this Agreement shall
be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each party. Any failure
of a party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition
contained in this Agreement may be waived by the party entitled to the benefits
thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the party
granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict
compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other
failure of compliance. In the event that the terms of a Domestic Selling
Agreement shall conflict with the terms of this Agreement, the terms of such
Domestic Selling Agreement shall control for purposes of such Domestic Selling
Agreement.

      Section 7.11. Access to Records. Parent shall cause the Domestic Parent
Distributors to maintain adequate books and records related to the activities of
the Domestic Parent Distributors under the Domestic Selling Agreements with
respect to the Products and New Products distributed thereunder. Upon written
request, but no more frequently than annually, (i) Parent shall certify to
Purchaser its material compliance with the terms of Sections 3.2(b), 3.3 and
3.4(a) of this Agreement during the period covered by such certificate and (ii)
Purchaser shall certify to Parent that no Purchaser Insurer has, during the
period covered by such certification, provided to any Comparable Distributor any
product that is substantially the same as an Exclusive Product provided by a
Travelers Insurer on an exclusive basis to a Domestic Exclusive Parent
Distributor under a Domestic Selling Agreement with terms, total compensation,
consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features and
service standards and metrics, taken as a whole, that are materially more
favorable to such Comparable Distributor than the terms, total compensation,
consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features and
service standards and metrics of such Exclusive Product, taken as a whole.

      Section 7.12. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the parties
in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each
counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all
such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

      Section 7.13. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY
LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY
ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

                  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank.]

                                       20

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
signed by their respective authorized representatives.

                                             CITIGROUP INC.

                                             By:_______________________________
                                             Name:
                                             Title:

                                             METLIFE, INC.

                                             By:_______________________________
                                             Name:
                                             Title:

SCHEDULE 3.2(a)
                   EXISTING DISTRIBUTION RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
             DOMESTIC PARENT DISTRIBUTORS AND TRAVELERS INSURERS(1)

NATURE OF RELATIONSHIP (EXCLUSIVE
                                                                                             OR
     DOMESTIC PARENT DISTRIBUTOR(2)             PRODUCTS OFFERED                       NON-EXCLUSIVE)
-------------------------------------   ---------------------------------     ---------------------------------
                                                                           
PFS Investments Inc.                    Variable Annuities(3)                 Exclusive

Smith Barney, a division of Citigroup   Universal Annuity                     Non-exclusive
Global Markets Inc.                     TFLEX
                                        Goldtrack Registered
                                        Goldtrack Unregistered
                                        Portfolio Architect Select
                                        Vintage L
                                        Vintage XTRA (Series II)
                                        Travelers Access Select
                                        Vintage Access
                                        Vintage
                                        Vintage II
                                        Vintage III
                                        Vintage Xtra
                                        Vintage II (series II)
                                        Marquis
                                        TPLUS
                                        Protected Equity
                                        Travelers Target Maturity
                                        Single Premium Immediate Annuity
                                        Travelers Index Annuity
                                        Blueprint
                                        Blueprint II
                                        Pioneer Annuistar
                                        Pioneer Annuistar Plus
                                        Pioneer Annuistar Flex
                                        Pioneer Annuistar Value
                                        Scudder Advocate Advisor

------------------
(1) To be finalized and updated as of Closing Date.

(2) Together with certain affiliated and insurance entities.

(3) SPIA; Gold Track Express; PrimeBuilder II; PrimElite; PrimElite II;
Protected Equity Portfolio; Travelers Target Maturity

Scudder Advocate Rewards
                                        Scudder Advocate Advisor ST1
                                        412(i)
                                        10LT
                                        15LT
                                        20LT
                                        APT30
                                        ART75
                                        Special T 15-19
                                        Special T 20
                                        Special T 5-14
                                        UL Bonus
                                        UL Bonus - Excess
                                        Market Life
                                        Market Life - Excess
                                        TVLAC
                                        TVLAC - Excess
                                        TVLDB
                                        TVLDB - Excess
                                        VSL
                                        VSL - Excess
                                        First To Die
                                        First To Die - Excess
                                        TSL
                                        TSL - Excess
                                        MVP
                                        MVP - Excess

Citibank, N.A.                          FPDA / SPDA                           Non-exclusive
                                        Portfolio Architect
                                        Vintage L
                                        Vintage XTRA (series II)
                                        Travelers Access
                                        Vintage Access
                                        Vintage II
                                        Vintage III
                                        Vintage Xtra
                                        Vintage II (series II)
                                        TPLUS
                                        Travelers Index Annuity
                                        Protected Equity Portfolio
                                        Travelers Target Maturity
                                        CitiVariable
                                        CitiElite
                                        GoldTrack Express
                                        Single Premium Immediate Annuity
                                        PTM with Principal Protection

3

CitiIndex
                                        412(i)
                                        10LT
                                        15LT
                                        20LT
                                        APT30
                                        ART75
                                        Special T 15-19
                                        Special T 20
                                        Special T 5-14
                                        UL Bonus
                                        UL Bonus - Excess
                                        Market Life
                                        Market Life - Excess
                                        TVLAC
                                        TVLAC - Excess
                                        TVLDB
                                        TVLDB - Excess
                                        VSL
                                        VSL - Excess
                                        First To Die
                                        First To Die - Excess
                                        TSL
                                        TSL- Excess
                                        MVP
                                        MVP - Excess
                                        Prosperity Builder
                                        PLIFE

The Citigroup Private Bank, a           10LT                                  Non-exclusive
division of Citibank, N.A.              15LT
                                        20LT
                                        APT30
                                        ART75
                                        Special T 15-19
                                        Special T 20
                                        Special T 5-14
                                        First To Die
                                        First To Die - Excess
                                        TSL
                                        TSL- Excess
                                        MVP
                                        MVP - Excess
                                        Market Life
                                        Market Life - Excess
                                        TVLAC
                                        TVLAC - Excess

4

TVLDB
                                        TVLDB - Excess
                                        VSL
                                        VSL - Excess
                                        UL Bonus
                                        UL Bonus - Excess

5
 
                                                                     EXHIBIT B-2

================================================================================

                      INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

                                 BY AND BETWEEN

                                 CITIGROUP INC.

                                       AND

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                AS OF [   ], 2005

================================================================================

2

INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

      THIS INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of
[ ], 2005, is made by and between Citigroup Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Parent"), and MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Purchaser").

      WHEREAS, Purchaser and certain of its Affiliates provide insurance and
annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous countries around
the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent, through its Affiliates, has an extensive proprietary
distribution network that distributes, on behalf of insurance companies,
insurance and annuity products throughout the United States and in numerous
countries around the world;

      WHEREAS, Parent and Purchaser have entered into an Acquisition Agreement,
dated as of January 31, 2005 (the "Acquisition Agreement"), pursuant to which
Purchaser will acquire on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth
therein, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of certain subsidiaries
of, and the equity interests owned by Parent in certain joint ventures of,
Parent or its Affiliates, including the Travelers Insurers;

      WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
Acquisition Agreement, the parties hereto desire to enter into a distribution
relationship inside the United States pursuant to a Domestic Distribution
Agreement to be entered into on the date hereof and the distribution
relationship outside the United States contemplated by this Agreement; and

      WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to
closing of the transactions contemplated by the Acquisition Agreement.

      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, agreements and
promises herein contained, the parties do hereby agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I.
                                   DEFINITIONS

      Section 1.1 Defined Terms. For purposes of this Agreement, unless
the context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

      "Acquisition Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto.

      "Adequate Financial Strength Rating" means, with respect to a Purchaser
Insurer in a particular country, such criteria related to financial strength of
the Purchaser Insurer compared to other similarly situated providers (considered
as a group) of similar products in such country determined on the basis of
criteria to be reasonably determined in good faith by the parties and as
reflected in the applicable International Selling Agreement. Such criteria will
take into account factors such as the availability of financial strength ratings
in the country in which the products of the Purchaser Insurer are sold.

"Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person that
directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with such first Person. The term
"control" (including its correlative meanings "controlled by" and "under common
control with") shall mean possession, directly or indirectly, of power to direct
or cause the direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of
securities or partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or
otherwise).

      "Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

      "Comparable Distributor" shall mean a distributor using a substantially
similar approach to the marketing, servicing, sales support and overall
distribution of products.

      "Competitive" means (i) the terms, total compensation, customer appeal,
consumer pricing and value, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features
and service standards and metrics of the applicable product, taken as a whole,
are at least equivalent to those of other comparable products, considered as a
group, then distributed by the applicable Affiliate of Parent and (ii) the
Purchaser Insurer shall have an Adequate Financial Strength Rating.

      "Confidential Information" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
4.2(b).

      "Covered Country" means each of the following countries: Argentina,
Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Hong Kong, Japan, Poland and the United Kingdom.

      "Exclusive Products" means the Products designated on Schedule 3.2(a) as
being subject to an exclusive relationship.

      "Existing Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(c).

      "First Term" means the five-year period commencing on the date of this
Agreement and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement.

      "Indemnified Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Indemnifying Party" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "International Exclusive Parent Distributor" means each International
Parent Distributor to which a Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider of any
Product on the date of this Agreement and such Person's successors and assigns.

      "International Parent Distributor" means (i) any Person Affiliated with
Parent that, as of the date hereof, distributes any Product that a Travelers
Insurer offers in any Covered Country and such Person's successors and assigns
and (ii) any Person Affiliated with Parent that distributes any product offered
by a Purchaser Insurer in any country other than a Covered Country pursuant to
an arrangement contemplated by Sections 3.4(b), 3.5(b) and 3.6(b) (but in each
case only from and after such time that such Person begins distributing such
product for a Purchaser Insurer) and such Person's successors and assigns.

      "International Selling Agreements" has the meaning set forth in Section
3.1.

                                       2

"Law" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "Level Playing Field" means, with respect to a product, Parent (i) shall,
and shall cause any International Parent Distributor entering into an
International Selling Agreement with respect to such product pursuant to Section
3.1 to, afford the same access to its distribution platforms for such product
offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable) as the
access it affords to comparable products offered by a Third Party Insurer and
(ii) shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates (including the International
Parent Distributors) not to, provide to its Sales Force any compensation or
other economic inducement or benefit for the sale of comparable products sold in
a comparable sales support and compensation framework offered by a Third Party
Insurer that are more favorable than the compensation or other economic
inducements or benefits provided to such Sales Force for the sale of such
products offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a Purchaser Insurer, as applicable);
provided, that a Level Playing Field may include variations in Sales Force
compensation that are (x) based upon neutral criteria that do not differentiate
between product providers, such as achieving sales volume or persistency
objectives, or (y) for products (including combined product and service
arrangements) for which distributor compensation is negotiated by the provider
on a sale-by-sale basis, such as group retirement products.

      "Licensing Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition
Agreement.

      "Local Incumbent" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.7.

      "Losses" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Marks" shall mean the Parent Distributor Marks, as defined in the
Licensing Agreement in respect of this Agreement.

      "New Products" means (i), with respect to each Covered Country, any life
insurance or annuity product that a Purchaser Insurer is authorized to offer but
was not included among the types of insurance or annuity products distributed by
an International Parent Distributor in such Covered Country on the date of this
Agreement and (ii) products offered by a Purchaser Insurer pursuant to
arrangements contemplated by Sections 3.5(b) and 3.6(b). For avoidance of doubt,
the addition of new features to Products shall not constitute New Products in
whole or in part, regardless of whether any insurance regulatory filing is
required in connection therewith.

      "Non-Exclusive Products" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.

      "Parent" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereof.

      "Parent Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.

      "Parent Standards and Practices" means the client service and relationship
standards, business practices, ethical standards, customer privacy and
protection policies and general service quality standards, reputational
considerations and industry standards, as determined from time to time by Parent
or any of its Affiliates, provided that such Parent Standards and Practices, to
the extent they relate to a Product or New Product and/or International Parent
Distributor, shall be applied, and changes thereto shall be made, without
discriminating in any material

                                       3

manner against any Travelers Insurer or Purchaser Insurer, as applicable,
relative to all other similarly situated providers of such Products or New
Products distributed by such International Parent Distributor.

      "Person" shall have the meaning set forth in the Acquisition Agreement.

      "PLP Distributor" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b).

      "Private Label Product" means a life insurance or annuity product
customized for an International Parent Distributor in a Covered Country or
Supplemental Country that (i) is branded under the name of the International
Parent Distributor in such Covered Country or Supplemental Country or (ii) is
a variable life insurance or variable annuity contract that offers as an
option more than two investment choices or mutual funds that are advised or
managed by Parent or a Parent Affiliate, including an International Parent
Distributor (in the capacity of either an advisor or sub-advisor). For the
avoidance of doubt, a Private Label Product (whether existing on the date of
this Agreement or thereafter) shall be deemed a Product for all purposes under
this Agreement.

      "Products" means the life insurance and annuity products issued by the
Travelers Insurers and distributed through the International Parent Distributors
on the date of this Agreement, and any Substitute Products distributed in
replacement thereof pursuant to Section 3.5(c).

      "Purchaser" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph
hereof.

      "Purchaser Indemnified Parties" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.

      "Purchaser Insurer" means any insurance company Affiliate of Purchaser,
including the Travelers Insurers.

      "Sales Force" means those point of sale representatives and their direct
supervisors utilized by Parent, International Parent Distributors or one of
their respective Affiliates whose job responsibility includes the sale or
promotion of Products or New Products offered by a Travelers Insurer (or a
Purchaser Insurer, as applicable).

      "Second Term" means the five-year period commencing upon the expiration of
the First Term and ending on the tenth anniversary of the date of this
Agreement.

      "Substitute Product" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.5(c).

      "Supplemental Country" means each of the following countries: Chile,
China, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan, and Uruguay.

      "Target Affiliated Distributor" means any Person Affiliated with Parent
that (i) was an Affiliate of a Target Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) immediately prior to the acquisition of such Target Business by
Parent or an Affiliate of Parent and (ii) is engaged in the business of
distributing financial services products.

      "Term" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.

                                       4

"Third Party Claim" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4.

      "Third Party Insurer" means an insurance company that is not Affiliated
with Purchaser.

      "Travelers Insurers" means the International Insurance Companies (as
defined in the Acquisition Agreement) and the Joint Ventures (as defined in the
Acquisition Agreement) to be acquired by Purchaser pursuant to the Acquisition
Agreement and their successors and assigns, and with respect to a Substitute
Product that is offered pursuant to Section 3.5(c), a Purchaser Insurer and its
successors and assigns.

      Section 1.2 Purposes of Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, Purchaser and Parent agree that this Agreement is
intended to set forth certain principal business terms upon which they will
enter into International Selling Agreements during the Term and that nothing
herein creates an International Selling Agreement.

      Section 1.3 Construction. For the purposes of this Agreement: (i) words
(including capitalized terms defined herein) in the singular shall be held to
include the plural and vice versa, and words (including capitalized terms
defined herein) of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the
context requires; (ii) the terms "hereof," "herein" and "herewith" and words of
similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to this
Agreement as a whole (including all of the Schedules) and not to any particular
provision of this Agreement, and Article, Section, paragraph and Schedule
references are to the Articles, Sections, paragraphs and Schedules to this
Agreement, unless otherwise specified; (iii) the word "including" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall mean "including, without
limitation"; (iv) all references to any period of days shall be deemed to be to
the relevant number of calendar days unless otherwise specified; and (v)
"commercially reasonable efforts" shall not require a waiver by any party of any
material rights or any action or omission that would be a breach of this
Agreement.

      Section 1.4 Headings. The Article and Section headings contained in this
Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II.
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

      Section 2.1 Representations and Warranties of Parent. Parent hereby
represents and warrants to Purchaser as set forth below.

            (a) Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Parent has all necessary corporate power and authority to make,
execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations to be
performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance by
Parent of this Agreement and the consummation by Parent of the transactions
contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
corporate action on the part of Parent. This Agreement has been duly and validly
executed and delivered by Parent, and assuming the due authorization, execution
and

                                       5

delivery by Purchaser, this Agreement will constitute the valid, legal and
binding obligation of Parent, enforceable against it in accordance with its
terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, moratorium
or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect, relating to or affecting the
rights of creditors generally and by legal and equitable limitations on the
enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Parent,
nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will (i) violate
or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or bylaws or
other organizational documents of Parent or any International Parent
Distributor, (ii) violate any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of any Law
or license to which Parent or any International Parent Distributor is subject or
by which it or any International Parent Distributor or any of its or their
assets are bound, or (iii) violate, breach, or constitute a default under any
contract to which Parent or any International Parent Distributor is a party or
by which it or any International Parent Distributor or any of its or their
assets is bound. The distribution of any Products offered by a Travelers Insurer
and distributed by an International Parent Distributor on the date hereof does
not violate, breach, or constitute a default under any contract to which Parent
or any International Parent Distributor is a party or by which any of them or
any of their respective assets is bound.

            (d) None of the arrangements by which any International Parent
Distributor distributes any Products on behalf of a Travelers Insurer in force
on the date of the Acquisition Agreement or the date of this Agreement violated
or violates any of the Parent Standards and Practices in effect on such date.

      Section 2.2. Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser hereby
represents and warrants to Parent as set forth below.

            (a) Purchaser is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

            (b) Purchaser has all necessary corporate power and authority to
make, execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform all of the obligations
to be performed by it hereunder. The making, execution, delivery and performance
by Purchaser of this Agreement and the consummation by Purchaser of the
transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary corporate action on the part of Purchaser. This Agreement has been
duly and validly executed and delivered by Purchaser, and assuming the due
authorization, execution and delivery by Parent, this Agreement will constitute
the valid, legal and binding obligation of Purchaser, enforceable against it in
accordance with its terms, except as may be subject to applicable bankruptcy,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar Laws, now or hereafter in effect,
relating to or affecting the rights of creditors generally and by legal and
equitable limitations on the enforceability of specific remedies.

            (c) Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by
Purchaser, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, will
(i) violate or conflict with any provision of the articles of incorporation or
bylaws or other organizational documents of Purchaser or any Purchaser Insurer
(other than the Travelers Insurers), (ii) violate any of the terms, conditions,
or provisions of any Law or license to which Purchaser is subject or by which

                                       6

it or any of its assets is bound, or (iii) violate, breach, or constitute a
default under any contract to which Purchaser is a party or by which it or any
of its assets is bound.

                                  ARTICLE III.
                           INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION

      Section 3.1. Selling Agreements. In order to effectuate the distribution
arrangements contemplated hereby among the Travelers Insurers (and Purchaser
Insurers, as applicable) and the International Parent Distributors for
distribution of the Products and New Products offered by the Travelers Insurers
(and Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) in the Covered Countries and the
Supplemental Countries, Parent shall cause the International Parent
Distributors, and Purchaser shall cause the Travelers Insurers (and Purchaser
Insurers, as applicable), to negotiate in good faith and enter into written
selling agreements that are consistent with industry practice and with the
principles set forth in this Agreement and that contain terms and conditions
taken as a whole that are no less favorable to the Travelers Insurers (and
Purchaser Insurers, as applicable) and the International Parent Distributors
than the terms and conditions of the selling and selling related arrangements
existing on the date of this Agreement between the Travelers Insurers and the
International Parent Distributors (the "International Selling Agreements"). For
each International Parent Distributor that distributes a Product for a Travelers
Insurer on the date of this Agreement, an International Selling Agreement for
the distribution of such Product, to take effect on the date of this Agreement,
shall be executed and delivered by such International Parent Distributor and the
applicable Travelers Insurer on or prior to the date of this Agreement. The
International Selling Agreements will contain provisions concerning the periodic
readjustment of compensation as agreed by the parties thereto.

      Section 3.2. Exclusive Distribution Arrangements.

            (a) Parent represents and warrants that Schedule 3.2(a), which was
provided to Purchaser no later than 45 days after the date of the Acquisition
Agreement, sets forth a complete and accurate list of all life insurance and
annuity products issued by a Travelers Insurer and distributed by an
International Parent Distributor (whether pursuant to a written agreement or de
facto) in a Covered Country on behalf of a Travelers Insurer on the date of this
Agreement, the identity of each International Parent Distributor that
distributes each such product and whether or not a Travelers Insurer is the
exclusive provider (whether pursuant to a written agreement or de facto) of such
product to such International Parent Distributor.

            (b) If any Travelers Insurer is the exclusive provider (whether
pursuant to a written agreement or de facto) of an Exclusive Product to any
International Exclusive Parent Distributor in a Covered Country on the date of
this Agreement, such Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be the exclusive
provider of such Exclusive Product to such International Exclusive Parent
Distributor in such Covered Country during the First Term. During the Second
Term, each Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a provider, on a
non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, to each International Exclusive Parent
Distributor of each Exclusive Product distributed by such International
Exclusive Parent Distributor on the date of this Agreement. During the First
Term, Parent shall not make any change in the Parent Standards and Practices
(except changes that may be reasonably appropriate to comply with applicable
Law) that would

                                       7

conflict with the rights granted to the Travelers Insurers under the first
sentence of this Section 3.2(b).

            (c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary (including,
without limitation, Section 3.5(c)), prior to the earlier of (i) the end of the
60-day period beginning on the date of this Agreement and (ii) December 31,
2005, (x) Purchaser shall cause the Exclusive Products to be marketed under the
brand name and with such trademarks or trade names (including the identity of
the underwriter of such Exclusive Product) as used on the date of this Agreement
and (y) no Purchaser Insurer shall be permitted to provide a Substitute Product
in place of an Exclusive Product.

      Section 3.3. Non-Exclusive Distribution Arrangements. If any Travelers
Insurer is a non-exclusive provider of a Product to any International Parent
Distributor in any Covered Country on the date of this Agreement (the
"Non-Exclusive Products"), such Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be a
provider of such Product, on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, to such
International Parent Distributor in such country during the Term.

      Section 3.4. Private Label Products.

            (a) If any Travelers Insurer is the provider of a Private Label
Product to an International Parent Distributor in any Covered Country on the
date of this Agreement, such Travelers Insurer shall have the right to be the
provider of such Private Label Product in such Covered Country during the Term.

            (b) Subject to the last sentence of this Section 3.4(b), if, prior
to the seventh anniversary of the date of this Agreement, any International
Parent Distributor or any other Affiliate of Parent that distributes life
insurance or annuity products desires to distribute, as a Private Label Product
in any Covered Country or Supplemental Country, a life insurance product (other
than term life insurance) or annuity product that it does not distribute as a
Private Label Product in such country on the date of this Agreement, Parent
shall cause such International Parent Distributor or other Affiliate of Parent
(a "PLP Distributor") to notify Purchaser no later than the time of notification
of any Third Party Insurer. If the PLP Distributor does not select a Purchaser
Insurer as the provider of the new Private Label Product and the PLP Distributor
desires to continue to seek a Third Party Insurer, as provider, Parent shall
cause the PLP Distributor to include the Purchaser Insurers in the process for
selection of such provider (whether by formal request for proposals or
otherwise) to provide such Private Label Product prior to selecting a Third
Party Insurer. Parent shall cause the PLP Distributor to entertain in good
faith, and on terms no less favorable than those extended to any other proposed
provider, proposals from the Purchaser Insurers to provide such new Private
Label Product. Such PLP Distributor (i) shall have exclusive discretion in
determining the process for selection of, and the criteria for evaluation of,
potential providers of any such Private Label Product and (ii) shall make a good
faith determination of the relative suitability of proposals from potential
providers for satisfying the requirements of such Private Label Product (it
being understood that if such PLP Distributor determines that a proposal from a
Purchaser Insurer satisfies such requirements, considered as a whole, at least
as well as the most favorable proposal or proposals of the other potential
providers, such Purchaser Insurer's proposal shall be selected); provided,
however, that such PLP Distributor shall not be required to select any such
proposal. The rights granted to the

                                       8

Purchaser Insurers under this Section 3.4(b) shall not apply with respect to any
new Private Label Product if an insurance company not Affiliated with Parent or
Purchaser contacts or approaches the International Parent Distributor, without
solicitation by such International Parent Distributor relating to such Private
Label Product, about developing or the possibility of developing such Private
Label Product. Notwithstanding the foregoing, but subject to Section 3.5,
nothing in this Section 3.4 shall be construed to limit such International
Parent Distributor's ability to offer Products substantially the same as any
Private Label Product on a non-private label basis.

      Section 3.5. New Products; New Countries; Substitute Products.

            (a) At any time during the Term, (i) Purchaser may propose to an
International Parent Distributor that such International Parent Distributor or
one or more of its Affiliates distribute a New Product offered by a Purchaser
Insurer and (ii) an International Parent Distributor may propose to Purchaser
that such International Parent Distributor or one or more of its Affiliates
distribute a New Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer.

            (b) Subject to Section 3.6(b), if, prior to the seventh anniversary
of the date of this Agreement, (i) any Purchaser Insurer that, as of the date of
this Agreement, offers a life insurance or annuity product for distribution in
any Supplemental Country desires to offer such product for distribution through
an Affiliate of Parent in such country, (ii) such Affiliate of Parent
distributes a life insurance or annuity product that is substantially the same
as such product through an open architecture distribution platform in such
country at the time and has multiple providers of such product and (iii) the
product proposed to be offered by the Purchaser Insurer is Competitive, then
such Purchaser Insurer shall have the right to provide such product to such
Affiliate of Parent in such country on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field
basis for the remainder of such seven-year period.

            (c) At any time during the Term, Purchaser may propose in writing
that any Purchaser Insurer offer, in place of any Product then offered by a
Travelers Insurer through an International Parent Distributor (an "Existing
Product") in a Covered Country or a Supplemental Country, a substitute product
and if (i) such Purchaser Insurer has an Adequate Financial Strength Rating and
(ii) such substitute product is substantially the same as the Existing Product
in the terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage,
training and support, features and service standards and metrics (a "Substitute
Product"), then Parent shall cause such International Parent Distributor to
distribute such Substitute Product in place of the Existing Product in such
country. The Purchaser Insurer that offers such Substitute Product shall have
the same rights under this Agreement with respect to the Substitute Product as
the Travelers Insurer that offered the Existing Product possessed with respect
to the Existing Product. By way of illustration and without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, if the Travelers Insurer was entitled to provide
the Existing Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis through the
International Parent Distributor, the Purchaser Insurer shall be entitled to
provide the Substitute Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis
through such International Parent Distributor in place of such Existing Product.
Parent shall cause the applicable International Parent Distributor and Purchaser
shall cause the Purchaser Insurer to enter into an International Selling
Agreement with respect to the Substitute Product that is substantially the same
as the International Selling Agreement with respect to the Existing Product. The
Purchaser

                                       9

Insurer providing the Substitute Product shall bear reasonable costs incurred by
the applicable International Parent Distributor in connection with or arising
out of the replacement of the Existing Product with the Substitute Product.

      Section 3.6. Acquisitions.

            (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, but
subject to Section 3.6(b), neither Parent nor any International Parent
Distributor shall be (i) deemed to be in violation of this Agreement or any
International Selling Agreement or (ii) obligated hereunder or under any
International Selling Agreement to take any action (including to make any
adjustment to commissions, economic inducements or other benefits for the Sales
Force), if such violation would arise, or such action would be required to be
taken, solely as a result of Parent or one of its Affiliates acquiring assets or
a business of any Person engaged in the distribution of financial services
products following the date of this Agreement; provided, however, that nothing
in this Section 3.6(a) shall limit or restrict any obligations that Parent or
any International Parent Distributor has to distribute on an exclusive basis a
Product or a New Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer if such Purchaser
Insurer has the right under this Agreement or any International Selling
Agreement to be the exclusive provider of such Product or New Product to such
International Parent Distributor.

            (b) If, at any time prior to the seventh anniversary of the date of
this Agreement, (i) Parent acquires a Target Business (as defined in the
Acquisition Agreement), of which the net revenues and net earnings (in each
case, calculated in a manner consistent with Section 6.17(a)(x) of the
Acquisition Agreement, and, for the avoidance of doubt, excluding realized
gains) derived from a Competitive Business (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) are more than a de minimis amount, and (ii) Parent or its Affiliates
are permitted to acquire such Target Business pursuant to Sections 6.17(a)(x) or
6.17(a)(xi) of the Acquisition Agreement, then Purchaser through the Purchaser
Insurers shall have the right during the remainder of such seven-year period to
be a provider to each Target Affiliated Distributor, if any, on a non-exclusive
Level Playing Field basis, of any life insurance or annuity product that is
distributed by such Target Affiliated Distributor on a non-exclusive basis
either immediately before or following such acquisition; provided, that such
right shall be subject to any applicable contractual or other restrictions by
which such Target Affiliated Distributor is bound.

      Section 3.7. Reinsurance of Products Distributed on Behalf of Third Party
Insurers. During the Term, Parent shall, and shall cause each of its Affiliates
who, on the date of this Agreement, distributes life insurance or annuity
products on behalf of a Third Party Insurer ("Local Incumbent") where all or
part of such business written by such Third Party Insurer is reinsured by a
Travelers Insurer to, use its best efforts (x) to require each Local Incumbent
(which term shall include, for purposes of this Section 3.7, any successor or
replacement Local Incumbent) to continue to reinsure such business to a
Travelers Insurer or another Purchaser Insurer, as reasonably specified by
Purchaser, on terms no less favorable, taken as a whole, to the Travelers
Insurer or Purchaser Insurer than the terms on which such business is reinsured
on the date of this Agreement and (y) if any Local Incumbent refuses to continue
to reinsure such business in accordance with clause (x) (a "Refusing Insurer"),
to find a replacement insurance company for such Refusing Insurer (which
replacement shall have comparable financial strength to the Refusing Insurer (if
relevant with respect to the product offered by the Refusing Insurer)

                                       10

and may be a Purchaser Insurer, if one is available to issue the relevant types
of products issued by the Refusing Insurer in the applicable country so long as
such products are substantially the same as the products issued by the Refusing
Insurer) that will agree to write such business and to reinsure it in accordance
with clause (x) and, once such a replacement is found, to exercise any rights it
has to terminate its distribution arrangement with the Refusing Insurer and to
replace the Refusing Insurer with such replacement insurance company; provided
that any administrative costs incurred by the applicable Affiliate of Parent in
connection with effecting such replacement shall be paid in full by Purchaser or
a Purchaser Insurer; and provided, further, that the obligations of the
applicable Affiliate of Parent under clauses (x) and (y) above shall be
conditioned during the Second Term on the applicable Travelers Insurer or other
Purchaser Insurer having an Adequate Financial Strength Rating. Parent shall not
permit any Affiliate of Parent to agree to any changes in the terms of its
relationship with any Local Incumbent in any Covered Country that would
significantly and adversely affect the profitability of the business reinsured
by the Travelers Insurer or Purchaser Insurer without obtaining the prior
written consent of Purchaser, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

      Section 3.8. No Obligation. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this
Agreement or any International Selling Agreement shall (i) impose upon any
Purchaser Insurer any obligation to distribute any Products or New Products
offered by a Purchaser Insurer through the International Parent Distributors,
(ii) impose upon Parent or its Affiliates any obligation to provide to its or
their employees any Product or New Product issued by Purchaser or any Travelers
Insurers, (iii) restrict the ability of Purchaser or Parent or any of their
Affiliates from acquiring or disposing of any assets of, or reorganizing or
consolidating, any business, subject to the proviso in Section 3.6(a) or (iv)
restrict the ability of any Purchaser Insurer to distribute insurance or annuity
products through Persons other than Affiliates of Parent. Subject to Section
3.6(b), nothing in this Agreement shall impose upon any Affiliate of Parent that
becomes an Affiliate of Parent after the date of this Agreement any obligation
to distribute any Product or New Product on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer. For
the avoidance of doubt, in the event any International Parent Distributor ceases
to be an Affiliate of Parent, Parent's obligations under this Agreement with
respect to such International Parent Distributor shall no longer be applicable.

                                   ARTICLE IV.
                              ACCESS AND BRANDING

      Section 4.1. Access.

            (a) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, an
International Exclusive Parent Distributor permits wholesalers, Product
representatives or bank marketing representatives of the Travelers Insurers to
have access to such International Exclusive Parent Distributor, including its
Sales Force, bank branches, sales offices or sales, education or training
meetings that involve the promotion of Products made available by a Travelers
Insurer for distribution by such International Exclusive Parent Distributor in a
Covered Country, Parent shall, during the First Term, cause such International
Exclusive Parent Distributor to continue to permit such access on the same terms
and conditions as on the date hereof in a manner consistent with applicable Law
and the Parent Standards and Practices. The applicable Purchaser Insurer
providing the Exclusive Products shall continue during the First Term to
maintain wholesaler coverage, training, and sales support to the International
Exclusive Parent Distributor on terms

                                       11

and conditions that are no less favorable than those provided by the applicable
Travelers Insurer to such International Exclusive Parent Distributor on the date
of this Agreement.

            (b) To the extent that as of the date of this Agreement, an
International Parent Distributor (other than an International Exclusive Parent
Distributor) permits wholesalers, Product representatives or bank marketing
representatives of the Travelers Insurers to have access to such International
Parent Distributor in a Covered Country, including its Sales Force, bank
branches, sales offices or sales, education or training meetings that involve
the promotion of Products made available by a Travelers Insurer for distribution
by such International Parent Distributor, in a manner consistent with applicable
Law and with the Parent Standards and Practices, Parent shall, until the third
anniversary of the date hereof, cause such International Parent Distributor to
provide such access on terms and conditions that are no less favorable than
those generally applicable to any Third Party Insurer.

      Section 4.2. Branding; Use of Names; Confidential Information; Approval of
Certain Materials.

            (a) Unless otherwise provided in an International Selling Agreement
and, in all cases in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions of
the Licensing Agreement, during the Term, Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser
Insurers providing, and Parent shall cause all International Parent Distributors
distributing, Products (including Private Label Products in respect of which any
Purchaser Insurer is the provider on the date of this Agreement) to cause such
Products distributed through an International Parent Distributor to be offered
and branded utilizing the Marks that relate to each such Product as of the date
of this Agreement; provided that Purchaser and the Purchaser Insurers shall have
been granted adequate rights to use the Marks under the Licensing Agreement; and
provided, further, that the parties hereto agree that any trademark or trade
name on such product shall be appropriately altered to reflect any change to the
trademark or trade name of the applicable International Parent Distributor and,
subject to Section 3.2(c), in the case of a Substitute Product, to reflect any
change that is required by Law as a result of the change in the issuer of such
Substitute Product. To the extent that a Private Label Product is distributed by
a PLP Distributor on behalf of a Purchaser Insurer after the date of this
Agreement in accordance with Section 3.4, then Parent shall cause such PLP
Distributor and Purchaser shall cause all Purchaser Insurers providing such
Private Label Product to cause such Private Label Product to be offered and
branded using such trademarks or trade names as may be applicable to such
Private Label Product by such PLP Distributor, provided that Purchaser and the
applicable Purchaser Insurers shall own or shall have been granted adequate
rights to use such trademarks or trade names.

            (b) During the Term of this Agreement, the Travelers Insurers and,
as applicable, the Purchaser Insurers will have access to confidential
information and other proprietary information ("Confidential Information") of
Parent and its Affiliates. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited
to, the names, addresses, telephone numbers and social security numbers of
applicants for, purchasers of and other customers of Products and New Products
as well as other identity and private information in respect of Parent's or its
Affiliates' customers, employees, representatives and agents. Confidential
Information shall not include any customer information (i) that was previously
known by a Purchaser Insurer from a source other than any International Parent
Distributor without obligations of confidence; or (ii) that was

                                       12

or is rightfully received by a Purchaser Insurer from a third party without
obligations of confidence to any International Parent Distributor or from
publicly available sources without obligations of confidence to any
International Parent Distributor; or (iii) that was or is developed by means
independent of information obtained from any International Parent Distributor.
As a condition to such access, neither Purchaser nor any Purchaser Insurer shall
use, copy or disclose such Confidential Information in any manner (including,
without limitation, to sell or cross-sell their products). Confidential
Information may be used to service Products and New Products, including, as
appropriate, to accept additional contributions and premium for and to modify,
add, or exchange coverage to any Product or New Product purchased by a policy
owner who purchased from an International Parent Distributor. Purchaser and its
Affiliates shall take all appropriate action to ensure the protection,
confidentiality and security of such Confidential Information. The Purchaser and
its Affiliates acknowledge and agree that this Confidential Information is the
property of the International Parent Distributors. The parties also understand
that the Purchaser Insurers may respond to inquiries from holders of Products or
New Products concerning other Purchaser Insurer products and services provided
there was no solicitation of such inquiry using Confidential Information. The
parties also agree that this Section 4.2(b) shall not apply to individuals with
whom Purchaser or the Purchaser Insurers have a pre-existing relationship other
than through an International Parent Distributor.

            (c)    (i) Any marketing, training or other materials to be
made available by any Purchaser Insurer to any International Parent
Distributor's Sales Force or customers in connection with Products and New
Products (other than ordinary course communications to policyholders and
contract holders) shall be made available only with the prior consent (which
shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of the applicable International
Parent Distributor; provided that all such materials that are used by the
Travelers Insurers in connection with the distribution of Products through the
International Parent Distributors on the date of this Agreement shall not
require any such consent. In the event that the applicable Purchaser Insurer or
the applicable International Parent Distributor determines to discontinue the
use of any such materials, the parties shall cooperate with the applicable
Purchaser Insurer to ensure that such use is discontinued by such International
Parent Distributor's Sales Force.

(ii) Any marketing, training or other materials prepared by
      an International Parent Distributor and to be made available by such
      International Parent Distributor to its Sales Force or customers that
      describes any Purchaser Insurer or any of its Affiliates or any insurance
      or annuity product offered by any of them may be made available only with
      the prior consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) of
      the applicable Purchaser Insurer; provided that all such materials that
      are used by the International Parent Distributors in connection with the
      distribution of Products on the date of this Agreement shall not require
      any such consent. In the event that the applicable Purchaser Insurer or
      the applicable International Parent Distributor determines to discontinue
      the use of any such materials, the parties shall cooperate with the
      applicable International Parent Distributor to ensure that such use is
      discontinued by its Sales Force.

                                       13

ARTICLE V.
                    TERM OF THE AGREEMENT; CERTAIN CONDITIONS

      Section 5.1. Term. The term of this Agreement (the "Term") will commence
on the date of this Agreement and shall continue until the tenth anniversary of
the date of this Agreement; provided, however, the expiration of this Agreement
shall not reduce or curtail the term of any International Selling Agreement that
extends beyond the end of the Term.

      Section 5.2. Survival. Upon expiration of this Agreement, the provisions
of this Section 5.2 and Article VI and Article VII shall survive without
modification.

      Section 5.3. Certain Conditions.

            (a)   Subject to Section 5.3(b), but notwithstanding anything else
to the contrary in this Agreement or in any International Selling Agreement, no
International Parent Distributor shall be required to enter into (and may refuse
to enter into) an International Selling Agreement in respect of, or have any
obligation to offer (and may immediately cease to offer), any Product or New
Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer, if:

                  (i)   Parent reasonably determines that such Product or New
      Product offered by a Purchaser Insurer is not Competitive;

                  (ii)  any change is made or any feature is added to such
      Product or New Product (or a fund or investment option therein) without
      Parent's or the applicable International Parent Distributor's prior
      written approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
      delayed;

                  (iii) such Product or New Product or the offering thereof
      (including on an exclusive basis) conflicts with:

                        (x)   applicable Law, including any regulatory
            compliance procedures or restrictions in connection therewith;

                        (y)   any material provision of any existing agreement
            by which Parent or its Affiliates or any of their respective assets
            or properties are bound; provided that this clause (y) shall not
            apply to any Product offered by a Travelers Insurer and distributed
            by an International Parent Distributor pursuant to an arrangement in
            effect on the date hereof or any Substitute Products distributed in
            replacement thereof pursuant to Section 3.5(c), unless the violation
            is caused by or relates to (1) any difference between the Substitute
            Product and the Existing Product it replaced, or (2) solely the fact
            of the replacement of the Existing Product with the Substitute
            Product; or

                        (z)   the Parent Standards and Practices, provided that
            in the case of the application of this clause (z) during the First
            Term to any Exclusive Product following a change in the Parent
            Standards and Practices, any such change in the Parent Standards and
            Practices shall be in accordance with the third sentence of Section
            3.2(b);

                                       14

(iv)  such Product is an Exclusive Product and (x) any
      Purchaser Insurer provides to any Comparable Distributor a product that is
      substantially the same as such Exclusive Product and (y) the terms, total
      compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support,
      features and service standards and metrics of such product, taken as a
      whole, are more favorable than the terms, total compensation, consumer
      pricing, wholesaler coverage, training and support, features and service
      standards and metrics of such Exclusive Product, taken as a whole;
      provided, however, that this Section 5.3(a)(iv) shall not apply to any
      distribution arrangements of any Purchaser Insurer in effect on the date
      of this Agreement; or

                  (v)   with respect to any Exclusive Product, a federal, state
      or local domestic, foreign or supranational governmental, regulatory or
      self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or other
      governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, with jurisdiction over
      the International Exclusive Parent Distributor requests or mandates that
      the International Exclusive Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer
      offer the Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis; provided, however, in
      the case of such a request (but not a mandate), the International
      Exclusive Parent Distributor shall provide prompt notice of any such
      request to the Purchaser Insurer providing the Exclusive Product, and
      shall consult and cooperate with such Purchaser Insurer in its efforts to
      obtain from such regulatory agency an agreement that permits the
      International Exclusive Parent Distributor to continue to distribute such
      Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis. If such an agreement is reached,
      the International Exclusive Parent Distributor shall continue to
      distribute the Exclusive Product on an exclusive basis in accordance with
      the terms of Section 3.2. If such an agreement cannot be reached, the
      International Exclusive Parent Distributor shall distribute the Exclusive
      Product on a non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, for the remainder
      of the Term in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

            (b) Prior to any International Parent Distributor's exercising its
right under Section 5.3(a) not to enter into an International Selling Agreement
with respect to any Product or New Product or to cease offering any Product or
New Product, such International Parent Distributor shall provide written notice
to Purchaser, containing a reasonably detailed statement of the grounds for such
exercise, and shall afford Purchaser a period of 30 days in which to cure the
deficiency unless the deficiency is not capable of being cured. Such
International Parent Distributor shall consult and cooperate with Purchaser as
reasonably requested during such period in identifying possible cures. If
Purchaser is able to propose a cure that is reasonably satisfactory to such
International Parent Distributor before the expiration of such period, such
International Parent Distributor shall not be entitled to exercise its right to
refuse to enter into an International Selling Agreement or to cease offering the
applicable Product or New Product, provided that if any cure involves a change
in such Product's or New Product's terms or features that requires filing with
or approval (or non-disapproval) by any regulatory authority, such International
Parent Distributor shall, prior to exercising such right, afford Purchaser such
further period of time as may be reasonably necessary to accomplish such filing
or obtain such approval or non-disapproval. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Section 5.3(b), no International Parent Distributor shall be
required to continue to distribute any Product or New Product pending any cure
period, if the offering of such Product or New Product would reasonably be
expected to (i) violate applicable Law, including any regulatory compliance

                                       15

procedures or restriction in connection therewith, (ii) conflict with the Parent
Standards and Practices insofar as they relate to reputational considerations or
industry standards in the applicable country or (iii) in the case of an
Exclusive Product under Section 5.3(a)(v) above, conflict with a mandate from a
federal, state or local domestic, foreign or supranational governmental,
regulatory or self-regulatory authority, agency, court, tribunal, commission or
other governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory entity, with jurisdiction over
the International Exclusive Parent Distributor that such International Exclusive
Parent Distributor cease offering or no longer offer the Exclusive Product on an
exclusive basis; provided, in the case of this clause (iii), such International
Exclusive Parent Distributor shall distribute the Exclusive Product on a
non-exclusive, Level Playing Field basis, for the remainder of the Term in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

                                    ARTICLE VI.
                                 INDEMNIFICATION

      Section 6.1. Indemnification of Parent. Purchaser will defend and hold
harmless Parent and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Parent Indemnified Parties") from and against any
losses, liabilities, damages (including consequential damages), actions, claims,
demands, regulatory investigations, settlements, judgments and other expenses
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees and expenses ("Losses")
which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Parent Indemnified Party
and which arise from or are related to Purchaser's breach of any representation
or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is available under
the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty contained in this
Agreement.

      Section 6.2. Indemnification of Purchaser. Parent will defend and hold
harmless Purchaser and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors,
employees and agents (the "Purchaser Indemnified Parties") from and against any
Losses which are asserted against, incurred or suffered by any Purchaser
Indemnified Party and which arise from or are related to Parent's breach of any
representation or warranty (except to the extent indemnification therefor is
available under the Acquisition Agreement) or any covenant, condition or duty
contained in this Agreement.

      Section 6.3. Indemnity Provisions in International Selling Agreements.
Each International Selling Agreement shall provide indemnification for Losses
asserted against each of the parties thereto in respect of a failure of the
other party to comply with applicable Law and a breach by such other party of
any representation, warranty, covenant, condition or duty contained in such
International Selling Agreement.

      Section 6.4. Indemnification Procedures. Upon receipt by a Parent
Indemnified Party or a Purchaser Indemnified Party (each, an "Indemnified
Party"), as the case may be, of notice of any action, suit, proceedings, claim,
demand or assessment made or brought by an unaffiliated third party (a "Third
Party Claim") with respect to a matter for which such Indemnified Party is
indemnified under this Article VI which has or is expected to give rise to a
claim for Losses, the Indemnified Party shall promptly, in the case of a
Purchaser Indemnified Party, notify Parent and in the case of a Parent
Indemnified Party, notify Purchaser (Purchaser or Parent, as the case may be,
the "Indemnifying Party"), in writing, indicating the nature of such Third Party
Claim and the

                                       16

basis therefor; provided, however, that any delay or failure by the Indemnified
Party to give notice to the Indemnifying Party shall relieve the Indemnifying
Party of its obligations hereunder only to the extent, if at all, that it is
prejudiced by reason of such delay or failure. Such written notice shall (i)
describe such Third Party Claim in reasonable detail as is practicable including
the sections of this Agreement, which form the basis for such claim; provided
that the failure to identify a particular section in such notice shall not
preclude the Indemnified Party from subsequently identifying such section as a
basis for such claim, (ii) attach copies of all material written evidence
thereof and (iii) set forth the estimated amount of the Losses that have been or
may be sustained by an Indemnified Party. The Indemnifying Party shall have 30
days after receipt of notice to elect, at its option, to assume and control the
defense of, at its own expense and by its own counsel, any such Third Party
Claim and shall be entitled to assert any and all defenses available to the
Indemnified Party to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. If the
Indemnifying Party shall undertake to compromise or defend any such Third Party
Claim, it shall promptly notify the Indemnified Party of its intention to do so,
and the Indemnified Party agrees to cooperate fully with the Indemnifying Party
and its counsel in the compromise of, or defense against, any such Third Party
Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnifying Party shall not settle,
compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect to, any such Third
Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), unless the relief
consists solely of money Losses to be paid by the Indemnifying Party and
includes a provision whereby the plaintiff or claimant in the matter releases
the Purchaser Indemnified Parties or the Parent Indemnified Parties, as
applicable, from all liability with respect thereto. Notwithstanding an election
to assume the defense of such action or proceeding, the Indemnified Party shall
have the right to employ separate counsel and to participate in the defense of
such action or proceeding, and the Indemnifying Party shall bear the reasonable
fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if the (A) Indemnified Party
shall have determined in good faith that an actual or potential conflict of
interest makes representation by the same counsel or the counsel selected by the
Indemnifying Party inappropriate or (B) Indemnifying Party shall have authorized
the Indemnified Party to employ separate counsel at the Indemnifying Party's
expense. In any event, the Indemnified Party and Indemnifying Party and their
counsel shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party Claim subject to this
Article VI and keep such Persons informed of all developments relating to any
such Third Party Claims, and provide copies of all relevant correspondence and
documentation relating thereto. All costs and expenses incurred in connection
with the Indemnified Party's cooperation shall be borne by the Indemnifying
Party. In any event, the Indemnified Party shall have the right at its own
expense to participate in the defense of such asserted liability. If the
Indemnifying Party receiving such notice of a Third Party Claim does not elect
to defend such Third Party Claim or does not defend such Third Party Claim in
good faith, the Indemnified Party shall have the right, in addition to any other
right or remedy it may have hereunder, at the Indemnifying Party's expense, to
defend such Third Party Claim; provided, however, that the Indemnified Party
shall not settle, compromise or discharge, or admit any liability with respect
to, any such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying
Party (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

      Section 6.5. General.

            (a) The provisions of this Article VI will survive the expiration of
this Agreement.

                                       17

(b) The rights and remedies provided herein shall be
cumulative and in addition to all other rights and remedies available to the
parties at law or equity, and the exercise or beginning of the exercise of any
thereof by any party shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of
any other such rights or remedies by such party. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, nothing in this Agreement shall restrict or prevent any party from
seeking indemnification under any applicable provision of the Acquisition
Agreement, or any of the other Related Agreements (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement), provided that no party shall obtain duplicative recoveries.

                                  ARTICLE VII.
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

      Section 7.1. Equitable Remedes. The parties hereto acknowledge that money
damages may not be an adequate remedy for violations of this Agreement and that
any party, in addition to any other rights and remedies which the parties may
have hereunder or at law or in equity, may, in its sole discretion, apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction for specific performance or injunction or such
other relief as such court may deem just and proper in order to enforce this
Agreement or prevent any violation hereof and, to the extent permitted by
applicable Law, each party waives any objection to the imposition of such
relief.

      Section 7.2. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement or the
application of any such provision is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any
jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect
any other provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such
provision in any other jurisdiction. To the extent permitted by applicable Law,
the parties waive any provision of Law that renders any provision of this
Agreement invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect. The parties shall,
to the extent lawful and practicable, use their commercially reasonable efforts
to enter into arrangements to reinstate the intended benefits, net of the
intended burdens, of any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.

      Section 7.3. Further Assurance and Assistance. Parent and Purchaser agree
that each will, and will cause their respective Affiliates to, execute and
deliver any and all documents, and take such further acts, in addition to those
expressly provided for herein, that may be necessary or appropriate to
effectuate the provisions of this Agreement.

      Section 7.4. Notices. All notices, demands and other communications
required or permitted to be given to any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing and any such notice, demand or other communication shall be deemed to
have been duly given when delivered by hand, courier or overnight delivery
service or, if mailed, two (2) Business Days (as defined in the Acquisition
Agreement) after deposit in the mail and sent certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested and with first-class postage prepaid, or in the case of
facsimile notice, when sent and transmission is confirmed, and, regardless of
method, addressed to the party at its address or facsimile number set forth
below (or at such other address or facsimile number as the party shall furnish
the other parties in accordance with this Section 7.4):

                                       18

(a) If to Parent:

                Citigroup Inc.
                399 Park Avenue
                New York, New York
                Attn: Andrew M. Felner
                      Deputy General Counsel
                Facsimile:  (212) 559-7057
                e-mail: felnera@citigroup.com

                With a copy to:

                Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
                4 Times Square
                New York, New York  10036-6522
                Attn:  Eric J. Friedman, Esq.
                Facsimile:  (212) 735-2000

            (b) If to Purchaser:

                MetLife, Inc.
                2701 Queens Plaza North
                Long Island City, New York  11101
                Attn: James L. Lipscomb
                      Executive Vice President and General Counsel
                Facsimile:  (212) 252-7288

                With a copy to:

                LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae L.L.P.
                125 West 55th Street
                New York, New York  10019
                Attn:  Alexander M. Dye, Esq.
                Facsimile:  212-424-8500

      Section 7.5. Successors and Assigns. Subject to the terms of this Section
7.5, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, provided that the
Parent Indemnified Parties and the Purchaser Indemnified Parties shall be
intended third-party beneficiaries of Article VI. No party hereto may assign its
rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of
the other party (which consent may not be unreasonably withheld) and any
purported assignment without such consent shall be void.

      Section 7.6. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York applicable to
agreements made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard
to the conflict of laws principles of such State.

                                       19

Section 7.7.    Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process.

            (a) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and
unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York or, if such court will not
accept jurisdiction, the Supreme Court of the State of New York or any court of
competent civil jurisdiction sitting in New York County, New York. In any
action, suit or other proceeding, each of the parties hereto irrevocably and
unconditionally waives and agrees not to assert by way of motion, as a defense
or otherwise any claims that it is not subject to the jurisdiction of the above
courts, that such action or suit is brought in an inconvenient forum or that the
venue of such action, suit or other proceeding is improper. Each of the parties
hereto also hereby agrees that any final and unappealable judgment against a
party hereto in connection with any action, suit or other proceeding shall be
conclusive and binding on such party and that such award or judgment may be
enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction, either within or outside of the
United States. A certified or exemplified copy of such award or judgment shall
be conclusive evidence of the fact and amount of such award or judgment.

            (b) Each party irrevocably consents to service of process in the
manner provided for the giving of notices pursuant to Section 7.4 of this
Agreement. Nothing in this Section 7.7 shall affect the right of any party
hereto to serve process in any other manner permitted by Law.

      Section 7.8. Frustration. Parent and Purchaser agree that neither party
shall take any action that would reasonably be expected to frustrate the intent
of this Agreement nor shall any party omit to take any action, the omission of
which would reasonably be expected to frustrate the intent of this Agreement.

      Section 7.9. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with all schedules
hereto, embodies the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject
matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements with respect thereto. The
parties intend that this Agreement shall constitute the complete and exclusive
statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be
introduced in any judicial proceeding involving this Agreement.

      Section 7.10. Amendment and Waiver. No amendment to this Agreement shall
be effective unless it shall be in writing and signed by each party. Any failure
of a party to comply with any obligation, covenant, agreement or condition
contained in this Agreement may be waived by the party entitled to the benefits
thereof only by a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the party
granting such waiver, but such waiver or failure to insist upon strict
compliance with such obligation, covenant, agreement or condition shall not
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other
failure of compliance. In the event that the terms of an International Selling
Agreement shall conflict with the terms of this Agreement, the terms of such
International Selling Agreement shall control for purposes of such International
Selling Agreement.

      Section 7.11. Access to Records. Parent shall cause the International
Parent Distributors to maintain adequate books and records related to the
activities of the International Parent Distributors under the International
Selling Agreements with respect to the Products and New

                                       20

Products distributed thereunder. Upon written request, but no more frequently
than annually, (i) Parent shall certify to Purchaser its material compliance
with the terms of Sections 3.2(b), 3.3 and 3.4(a) of this Agreement during the
period covered by such certificate and (ii) Purchaser shall certify to Parent
that no Purchaser Insurer has, during the period covered by such certification,
provided to any Comparable Distributor any product that is substantially the
same as an Exclusive Product provided by a Travelers Insurer on an exclusive
basis to an International Exclusive Parent Distributor under an International
Selling Agreement with terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler
coverage, training and support, features and service standards and metrics,
taken as a whole, that are materially more favorable to such Comparable
Distributor than the terms, total compensation, consumer pricing, wholesaler
coverage, training and support, features and service standards and metrics of
such Exclusive Product, taken as a whole.

      Section 7.12. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the parties
in multiple counterparts which may be delivered by facsimile transmission. Each
counterpart when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original, and all
such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

      Section 7.13. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY
LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY
ACTION, SUIT, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

                  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank.]

                                       21

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
signed by their respective authorized representatives.

                                                  CITIGROUP INC.

                                                  By: _______________________
                                                  Name:
                                                  Title:

                                                  METLIFE, INC.

                                                  By: _______________________
                                                  Name:
                                                  Title:

SCHEDULE 3.2(a)

               EXISTING TRAVELERS INSURER PROVIDER RELATIONSHIPS(1)

International                                Products Offered
                  Parent             Products Offered          on a Non-          Private Label
Country         Distributor            Exclusively          Exclusive Basis     Products Offered
-------         -----------            -----------          ---------------     ----------------
                                                                         
-------         -----------            -----------          ---------------     ----------------
-------         -----------            -----------          ---------------     ----------------
-------         -----------            -----------          ---------------     ----------------
-------         -----------            -----------          ---------------     ----------------

---------------

(1) To be finalized and updated as of the Closing Date.

</EX-2.3>

<EX-4.7>
 3
 y81517exv4w7.txt
 EX-4.7

EXHIBIT 4.7

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       AND

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.)
                                     TRUSTEE

                             ----------------------

                         SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            DATED AS OF JUNE 3, 2004

                             ----------------------

                                  $200,000,000

                               5.50% SENIOR NOTES

                                DUE JUNE 15, 2014

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

----------------
(1)   This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Seventh
      Supplemental Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the
      interpretation of any of its terms or provisions.

                                       2

THIS SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 3rd day of June,
2004, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

      WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference
and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Seventh Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

      WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of senior notes may at
any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance
with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such series may
be described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the
Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series
of senior notes;

      WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Seventh Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                      5.50% SENIOR NOTES DUE JUNE 15, 2014

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

      There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 5.50% Senior Notes due
June 15, 2014 (the "2014 Senior Notes").

      There are to be authenticated and delivered 2014 Senior Notes, initially
limited in aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000, and no further 2014
Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as provided by Section
2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture; provided, however,
that the aggregate principal amount of the 2014

                                       3

Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2014 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN
numbers as the 2014 Senior Notes. The 2014 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully
registered form.

      The 2014 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary
with respect to the 2014 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.

      The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2014
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

      Each 2014 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof
and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance thereof or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

      The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

      "Interest Payment Date" means June 15 and December 15 of each year,
commencing December 15, 2004.

      "Original Issue Date" means June 3, 2004.

      "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
the close of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as the case may
be.

      "Stated Maturity" means June 15, 2014.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

      The principal of the 2014 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity.
The unpaid principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the
rate of 5.50% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid
semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing December 15,
2004, to the Person in whose name the 2014 Senior Notes are registered on the
Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest
payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom
principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly
provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular
Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original
Indenture.

      Payments of interest on the 2014 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2014 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day

                                       4

months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2014
Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on
such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and
without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except
that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment
shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the
same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the
2014 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2014 Senior Notes at the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on the 2014
Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment
Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer
at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States
as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the
date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

      The 2014 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $2,000, and whole
multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

      The 2014 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2014 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2014 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

      Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2014 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

      A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2014 Senior Notes registered
in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only as
provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security that
is exchangeable pursuant to the

                                       5

preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2014 Senior Notes registered in
such names as the Depositary shall direct.

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2014 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will
apply to the 2014 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

      The 2014 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount
equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal of and interest on the 2014 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2014 Senior Notes
to be redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

      "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2014 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2014 Senior Notes.

      "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for
the 2014 Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer
Quotations for such

                                       6

Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC
and four other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary
Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc
of America Securities LLC or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the
Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute
therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select
a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a
Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the
Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed, in each case, as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect
to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee
shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

      If less than all of the 2014 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
shall select the 2014 Senior Notes or portions of the 2014 Senior Notes to be
redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee
may select for redemption 2014 Senior Notes and portions of 2014 Senior Notes in
amounts of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

      The recitals in this Seventh Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2014 Senior Notes
and of this Seventh Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as if
set forth herein in full.

                                       7

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

      As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified
and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Seventh Supplemental
Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

      This Seventh Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                           METLIFE, INC.

                                           By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                               --------------------------
                                               Name:  Anthony J. Williamson
                                               Title: Senior Vice President and
                                                      Treasurer

                                           J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL
                                           ASSOCIATION

                                           By: /s/ J. Michael Banas
                                               -----------------------
                                               Name:  J. Michael Banas
                                               Title: Vice President

                                       9

EXHIBIT A

                   FORM OF 5.50% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 15, 2014

      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                      A-1

No. ____                                                   CUSIP No. 59156RAH1

                                                           ISIN No. US59156RAH12

METLIFE, INC.
                                5.50% Senior Note
                                Due June 15, 2014

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse
hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _________, or registered
assigns, the principal sum of _________ ($_________) on the Stated Maturity
shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the Original Issue Date shown
above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been
paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment
Date as specified above, commencing on December 15, 2004, and on the Stated
Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or
made available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

                                      A-2

Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on
the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of this
Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust Office of
the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid in such
coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is
legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of interest
(including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such
surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to
the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the
Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at
a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to
the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the Person
entitled thereto.

      The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

      REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH
ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE
SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                      A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By: ____________________
                                                Name:
                                                Title:

Attest:

__________________
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

                                            J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                            NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as
                                            Trustee

                                            By: _________________________
                                                Authorized Officer

                                      A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

      This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the Company
issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004 (the "Seventh Supplemental
Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between
the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to
Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes
any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all
indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the
respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of
the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued thereunder
and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be, authenticated
and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on the face
hereof as 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (the "Senior Notes"), initially
limited in aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000; provided, however, that
the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be increased in the
future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, on the same
terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the Senior Notes. Capitalized
terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the
meanings set forth in the Indenture.

      This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for Senior
Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided herein and
in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the Company that it
is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time
the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or
regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition,
as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that
this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive
registered form and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written
order of the Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this
Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive
registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes so issued in exchange
for this Note shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any whole multiples of
$1,000 in excess of $2,000, without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal
amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided
above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have
Senior Notes registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to
physical delivery of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

                                      A-5

If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and be
continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable in
the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

      The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

      The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

      The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal
to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal of and interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any
portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

      "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

                                      A-6

"Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for
the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for
such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC
and four other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary
Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc
of America Securities LLC or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the
Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute
therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select
a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a
Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the
Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect
to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee
shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

      If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee will
select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for
redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of $2,000 and
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

      No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of
the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

                                      A-7

As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency
of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized
denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount,
will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge
shall be made for any such exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company
will require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

      Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

      The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in
denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior
Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder
surrendering the same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be
exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.

      No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

      This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the state of New York.

                                      A-8

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common              UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                            Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                            ______________________
                                            (State)
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of
         survivorship and not as
         tenants in common

                    Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated: ______________                              _____________________________

                                                   _____________________________
                                                    NOTICE: The signature to
                                                    this assignment must
                                                    correspond with the name as
                                                    written upon the face of the
                                                    within instrument in every
                                                    particular without
                                                    alteration or enlargement,
                                                    or any change whatever.

                                      A-9

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

                                            J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                            NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                            as Trustee

                                            By: ___________________________
                                                Authorized Officer

                                       B-1

</EX-4.7>

<EX-4.8>
 4
 y81517exv4w8.txt
 EX-4.8

EXHIBIT 4.8

                                 METLIFE, INC.,
                                     ISSUER

                                       AND

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.)
                                     TRUSTEE

                               ------------------

                          EIGHTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            DATED AS OF JUNE 3, 2004

                               ------------------

                                  $400,000,000

                               6.375% SENIOR NOTES

                                DUE JUNE 15, 2034

TABLE OF CONTENTS(1)

----------------
(1)   This Table of Contents does not constitute part of the Eighth Supplemental
      Indenture and shall not have any bearing upon the interpretation of any of
      its terms or provisions.

                                       2

THIS EIGHTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 3rd day of June,
2004, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

      WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference
and the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Eighth Supplemental
Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

      WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture, a new series of senior notes may at
any time be established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance
with the provisions of the Original Indenture and the terms of such series may
be described by a supplemental indenture executed by the Company and the
Trustee;

      WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series
of senior notes;

      WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

      WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Eighth Supplemental Indenture a
valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

      NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I

                      6.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE JUNE 15, 2034

SECTION 1.01. Establishment.

      There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued
under the Indenture, to be designated as the Company's 6.375% Senior Notes due
June 15, 2034 (the "2034 Senior Notes").

      There are to be authenticated and delivered 2034 Senior Notes, initially
limited in aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000, and no further 2034
Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered except as provided by Section
2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original Indenture; provided, however,
that the aggregate principal amount of the 2034

                                       3

Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2034 Senior Notes, on the same terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN
numbers as the 2034 Senior Notes. The 2034 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully
registered form.

      The 2034 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto. The Depositary
with respect to the 2034 Senior Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.

      The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the 2034
Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto.

      Each 2034 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof
and shall bear interest from the date of original issuance thereof or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02. Definitions.

      The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context
otherwise requires, have the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used
herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set
forth in the Original Indenture.

      "Interest Payment Date" means June 15 and December 15 of each year,
commencing December 15, 2004.

      "Original Issue Date" means June 3, 2004.

      "Regular Record Date" means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date,
the close of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as the case may
be.

      "Stated Maturity" means June 15, 2034.

SECTION 1.03. Payment of Principal and Interest.

      The principal of the 2034 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity.
The unpaid principal amount of the 2034 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the
rate of 6.375% per year until paid or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid
semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing December 15,
2004, to the Person in whose name the 2034 Senior Notes are registered on the
Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, provided that interest
payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to the Person to whom
principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly
provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular
Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original
Indenture.

      Payments of interest on the 2034 Senior Notes will include interest
accrued to but excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest
payments for the 2034 Senior Notes shall be computed and paid on the basis of a
360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day

                                       4

months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2034
Senior Notes is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on
such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and
without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except
that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such payment
shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the
same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of the
2034 Senior Notes shall be made upon surrender of the 2034 Senior Notes at the
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on the 2034
Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest on any Interest Payment
Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto
as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer
at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States
as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the
date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

SECTION 1.04. Denominations.

      The 2034 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of $2,000, or whole
multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

SECTION 1.05. Global Securities.

      The 2034 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global
Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Except under
the limited circumstances described below, 2034 Senior Notes represented by
Global Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be
issuable as, 2034 Senior Notes in definitive form. The Global Securities
described above may not be transferred except by the Depositary to a nominee of
the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another
nominee of the Depositary or to a successor Depositary or its nominee.

      Owners of beneficial interests in such Global Securities will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture, and no
Global Security representing a 2034 Senior Note shall be exchangeable, except
for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in
the name of the Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Depositary or its
nominee. The rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only
through the Depositary.

      A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2034 Senior Notes registered
in the names of Persons other than the Depositary or its nominee only as
provided by Section 2.11(c) of the Original Indenture. Any Global Security that
is exchangeable pursuant to the

                                       5

preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for 2034 Senior Notes registered in
such names as the Depositary shall direct.

SECTION 1.06. Transfer.

      No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of 2034 Senior Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient
to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
therewith.

SECTION 1.07. Defeasance.

      The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will
apply to the 2034 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08. Redemption at the Option of the Company.

      The 2034 Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the 2034 Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount
equal to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal of and interest on the 2034 Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including
any portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the 2034 Senior Notes
to be redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

      "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the 2034 Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be
utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial
practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable
maturity to the remaining term of the 2034 Senior Notes.

      "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for
the 2034 Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer
Quotations for such

                                       6

Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC
and four other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary
Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc
of America Securities LLC or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the
Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute
therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select
a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a
Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the
Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed, in each case, as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect
to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee
shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

      If less than all of the 2034 Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
shall select the 2034 Senior Notes or portions of the 2034 Senior Notes to be
redeemed by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee
may select for redemption 2034 Senior Notes and portions of 2034 Senior Notes in
amounts of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 2.01. Recitals by the Company.

      The recitals in this Eighth Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company
only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the Original
Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and duties of
the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of the 2034 Senior Notes and of this
Eighth Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as if set forth
herein in full.

                                       7

SECTION 2.02. Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

      As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified
and confirmed, and the Original Indenture and this Eighth Supplemental Indenture
shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 2.03. Executed in Counterparts.

         This Eighth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

                                       8

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                            METLIFE, INC.

                                            By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                                -------------------------
                                                Name:  Anthony J. Williamson
                                                Title: Senior Vice President and
                                                       Treasurer

                                            J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL
                                            ASSOCIATION

                                            By: /s/ J. Michael Banas
                                                ------------------------
                                                Name:  J. Michael Banas
                                                Title: Vice President

                                       9

EXHIBIT A

                  FORM OF 6.375% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 15, 2034

      THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

      EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

                                      A-1

No. ____                                                  CUSIP No. 59156RAJ7
                                                          ISIN No. US59156RAJ77

                                  METLIFE, INC.

                               6.375% Senior Note

                                Due June 15, 2034

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term includes
any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse
hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _________, or registered
assigns, the principal sum of _________ ($_________) on the Stated Maturity
shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the Original Issue Date shown
above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been
paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment
Date as specified above, commencing on December 15, 2004, and on the Stated
Maturity at the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or
made available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

                                      A-2

Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable on such date
will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any
interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that, if such
Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on
the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and
effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

      Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of this
Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust Office of
the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid in such
coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is
legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of interest
(including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such
surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check mailed to
the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the
Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at
a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to
the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the Person
entitled thereto.

      The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

      REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH
ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE
SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

                                      A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                             METLIFE, INC.

                                             By: ____________________
                                                 Name:
                                                 Title:

Attest:

____________________
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                             J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                             NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                             as Trustee

                                             By: _________________________
                                                 Authorized Officer

                                      A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

      This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the Company
issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004 (the "Eighth Supplemental
Indenture," and together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between
the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to
Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes
any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all
indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the
respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of
the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued thereunder
and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be, authenticated
and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on the face
hereof as 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 (the "Senior Notes"), initially
limited in aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000; provided, however, that
the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be increased in the
future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, on the same
terms and with the same CUSIP and ISIN numbers as the Senior Notes. Capitalized
terms used herein for which no definition is provided herein shall have the
meanings set forth in the Indenture.

      This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for Senior
Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided herein and
in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the Company that it
is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time
the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good standing under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or
regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition,
as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that
this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive
registered form and executes and delivers to the Security Registrar a written
order of the Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this
Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive
registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes so issued in exchange
for this Note shall be in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000
in excess of $2,000, without coupons, and be of like aggregate principal amount
and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as provided above,
owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior
Notes registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical
delivery of Senior Notes in definitive registered form and will not be
considered the holders thereof for any purpose under the Indenture. Neither the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall have any
responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments
made on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for
maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial
ownership interests.

                                      A-5

If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and be
continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable in
the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

      The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

      The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

      The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal
to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal of and interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any
portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 20 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

      "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

      "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

                                      A-6

"Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of
national standing appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.

      "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date for
the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for
such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such Reference
Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than five such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC
and four other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary
Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc
of America Securities LLC or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the
Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute
therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select
a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a
Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the
Company.

      "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

      Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

      The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with respect
to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The Trustee
shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

      If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee will
select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for
redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of $2,000 and
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

      No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of
the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

                                      A-7

As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency
of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized
denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount,
will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge
shall be made for any such exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company
will require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge payable in connection therewith.

      Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

      The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in
denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior
Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder
surrendering the same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be
exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.

      No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

      Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the
Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

      This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the state of New York.

                                      A-8

ABBREVIATIONS

      The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of
this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common               UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                             Uniform Gift to Minors Act
                                             ____________________
                                             (State)
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of
         survivorship and not as
         tenants in common

                    Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

________________________________________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated: ______________                              _____________________________

                                                   _____________________________
                                                    NOTICE: The signature to
                                                    this assignment must
                                                    correspond with the name as
                                                    written upon the face of the
                                                    within instrument in every
                                                    particular without
                                                    alteration or enlargement,
                                                    or any change whatever.

                                      A-9

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

      This is one of the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                             J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                             NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                             as Trustee

                                             By: ___________________________
                                                 Authorized Officer

                                       B-1

</EX-4.8>

<EX-4.9>
 5
 y81517exv4w9.txt
 EX-4.9

Exhibit 4.9

                                                                  EXECUTION COPY

                                 METLIFE, INC.,

                                    as Issuer

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (as successor to BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.),

                                   as Trustee

                          -----------------------------

                          NINTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            DATED AS OF July 23, 2004

                SUPPLEMENT TO THE SEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            DATED AS OF JUNE 3, 2004

                                AND THE INDENTURE

                          DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 9, 2001

                          ----------------------------

$150,000,000

                               5.50% Senior Notes

                                Due June 15, 2014

THIS NINTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 23rd day of July,
2004, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

         WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as
of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee, as supplemented
by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004, by and between
the Company and the Trustee (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture");

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture
are incorporated herein by this reference and the Original Indenture, as
supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and as further supplemented
by this Ninth Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

         WHEREAS, pursuant to the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the
Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Board of Directors of the Company
established a new series of senior notes designated as the 5.50% Senior Notes
due June 15, 2014 (the "Initial 2014 Senior Notes"), initially limited in
aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000;

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture, provides that, without the consent of any holders of the
securities authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, the Company and the
Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental thereto for the purpose of, among
other things, adding to the authorized amount of securities issued thereunder,
subject to the conditions set forth therein;

         WHEREAS, the Company proposes to issue additional 5.50% Senior Notes
due June 15, 2014 (the "Additional 2014 Senior Notes", and collectively with the
Initial 2014 Senior Notes, the "2014 Senior Notes"), and the Additional 2014
Senior Notes, together with the Initial 2014 Senior Notes, will constitute a
single series of senior notes;

         WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

         WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Ninth Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                 Additional 5.50% Senior Notes Due June 15, 2014

SECTION 1.01.     Issuance of Additional 2014 Senior Notes.

         The aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes, initially
limited to an aggregate principal amount of $200,000,000 under the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture, is hereby increased by $150,000,000 to $350,000,000.

         There are to be authenticated and delivered Additional 2014 Senior
Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $150,000,000. Except as provided
herein, the Additional 2014 Senior Notes shall have the same terms and the same
CUSIP numbers and ISINs as the Initial 2014 Senior Notes and shall combine with
the Initial 2014 Senior Notes to form a single series of senior notes under the
Indenture. No further 2014 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered
except as provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original
Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2014
Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2014 Senior Notes, subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture
and with the same CUSIP numbers and ISINs as the 2014 Senior Notes. The
Additional 2014 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully registered form.

         The Additional 2014 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or
more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto.
The Depositary with respect to the Additional 2014 Senior Notes shall be The
Depository Trust Company.

         The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the
Additional 2014 Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in
Exhibit B hereto.

         Each Additional 2014 Senior Note shall be dated the date of
authentication thereof and shall bear interest from June 3, 2004 or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02.     Definitions.

         Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided
herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture, as
supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

SECTION 2.01.     Recitals by the Company.

         The recitals in this Ninth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of

2

the Additional 2014 Senior Notes and of this Ninth Supplemental Indenture as
fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02.     Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

         As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture and the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture are in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the
Original Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture and this Ninth
Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same
instrument.

SECTION 2.03.     Executed in Counterparts.

         This Ninth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                METLIFE, INC.

                                By:  /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                    ------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  Anthony J. Williamson
                                    Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL
                                ASSOCIATION

                                By:  /s/ J. Michael Banas
                                    ------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  J. Michael Banas
                                    Title: Vice President

4

EXHIBIT A

                   FORM OF 5.50% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 15, 2014

         THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

         EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

A-1

No. ____                                                     CUSIP No. 59156RAH1
                                                               ISIN US59156RAH12

METLIFE, INC.
                                5.50% Senior Note
                                Due June 15, 2014

Principal Amount:        $150,000,000

Regular Record Date:     With respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close
                         of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as
                         the case may be

Issue Date:              July 23, 2004

Stated Maturity:         June 15, 2014

Interest Payment Dates:  June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2004

Interest Rate            5.50% per year

Authorized Denomination  $2,000

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term
includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the
reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _________, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of _________ ($_________) on the Stated
Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from June 3, 2004, or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date as
specified above, commencing on December 15, 2004, and on the Stated Maturity at
the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or made
available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

         Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable

A-2

on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and
without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except
that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment
shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the
same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of
interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject
to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check
mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to
such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated
in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the
Person entitled thereto.

         The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

         REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET
FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES
HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                    METLIFE, INC.

By:
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:

Attest:

-------------------------------
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                    J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                    NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as

                                    Trustee

                                    By:
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Authorized Officer

A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

         This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the
Company issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Seventh
Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004 (the "Seventh Supplemental
Indenture") and as further supplemented by the Ninth Supplemental Indenture
dated as of July 23, 2004 (the "Ninth Supplemental Indenture" and, together with
the Original Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"),
between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as
successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which
term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and
all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder
of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued
thereunder and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be,
authenticated and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on
the face hereof as 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 (the "Senior Notes"),
limited in aggregate principal amount of $350,000,000; provided, however, that
the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be increased in the
future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, subject to the
conditions set forth in the Indenture and with the same CUSIP numbers and ISINs
as the Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is
provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

         This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for
Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided
herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the
Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note
or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good
standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other
applicable statute or regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor
Depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes
aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole
discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of
this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the
Security Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall
be so exchangeable, this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this
series in definitive registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes
so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000, without coupons, and be of like
aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be
exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note
will not be entitled to have Senior Notes registered in their names, will not
receive or be entitled to physical delivery of Senior Notes in definitive
registered form and will not be considered the holders thereof for any purpose
under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the
Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of
records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership
interests in this Note, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records
relating to such beneficial ownership interests.

A-5

If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and
be continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable
in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

         The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

         The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal
to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal of and interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any
portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

         "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

         "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

         "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an

A-6

independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the
Trustee after consultation with the Company.

         "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date
for the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than
five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such
quotations.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities
LLC and four other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary
Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc
of America Securities LLC or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the
Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute
therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select
a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a
Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the
Company.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
will select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for
redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of $2,000 and
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

         No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency
of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized
denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount,
will be issued to the designated transferee or

A-7

transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such exchange or
registration of transfer, but the Company will require payment of a sum
sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection
therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

         The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons
in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior
Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder
surrendering the same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be
exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.

         No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

         This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the State of New York.

A-8

ABBREVIATIONS

         The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face
of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common         UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                       Uniform Gift to Minors Act

                                       ----------------------------------
                                       (State)

TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN  - as joint tenants with right of
          survivorship and not as tenants in common

Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A-9

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:
       ------------------                       -------------------------------
                                                NOTICE: The signature to this
                                                assignment must correspond with
                                                the name as written upon the
                                                face of the within instrument in
                                                every particular without
                                                alteration or enlargement, or
                                                any change whatever.

A-10

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 5.50% Senior Notes due June 15, 2014 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                          J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                          NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                          By:
                                              --------------------------------
                                              Authorized Officer

B-1

</EX-4.9>

<EX-4.10>
 6
 y81517exv4w10.txt
 EX-4.10

Exhibit 4.10

                                                                  EXECUTION COPY

                                 METLIFE, INC.,

                                    as Issuer

                                       and

                J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                 (as successor to BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.),

                                   as Trustee

                          -----------------------------

                          TENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            DATED AS OF July 23, 2004

                 SUPPLEMENT TO THE EIGHTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

                            DATED AS OF JUNE 3, 2004

                                AND THE INDENTURE

                          DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 9, 2001

                          ----------------------------

$350,000,000

                               6.375% Senior Notes

                                Due June 15, 2034

THIS TENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 23rd day of July,
2004, by and between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.), a national banking corporation, as trustee (the "Trustee", which
term includes any successor trustee):

         WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as
of November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture") with the Trustee, as supplemented
by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2004, by and between
the Company and the Trustee (the "Eighth Supplemental Indenture");

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture and the Eighth Supplemental Indenture
are incorporated herein by this reference and the Original Indenture, as
supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture and as further supplemented by
this Tenth Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";

         WHEREAS, pursuant to the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the
Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Board of Directors of the Company established
a new series of senior notes designated as the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15,
2034 (the "Initial 2034 Senior Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal
amount of $400,000,000;

         WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture, provides that, without the consent of any holders of the
securities authenticated and delivered under the Indenture, the Company and the
Trustee may enter into indentures supplemental thereto for the purpose of, among
other things, adding to the authorized amount of securities issued thereunder,
subject to the conditions set forth therein;

         WHEREAS, the Company proposes to issue additional 6.375% Senior Notes
due June 15, 2034 (the "Additional 2034 Senior Notes", and collectively with the
Initial 2034 Senior Notes, the "2034 Senior Notes"), and the Additional 2034
Senior Notes, together with the Initial 2034 Senior Notes, will constitute a
single series of senior notes;

         WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established,
except as may be limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented
and modified, may be issued from time to time pursuant to the Indenture as at
the time supplemented and modified; and

         WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Tenth Supplemental Indenture
a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.

         NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set
forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

                Additional 6.375% Senior Notes Due June 15, 2034

SECTION 1.01.     Issuance of Additional 2034 Senior Notes.

         The aggregate principal amount of the 2034 Senior Notes, initially
limited to an aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000 under the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture, is hereby increased by $350,000,000 to $750,000,000.

         There are to be authenticated and delivered Additional 2034 Senior
Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $350,000,000. Except as provided
herein, the Additional 2034 Senior Notes shall have the same terms and the same
CUSIP numbers and ISINs as the Initial 2034 Senior Notes and shall combine with
the Initial 2034 Senior Notes to form a single series of senior notes under the
Indenture. No further 2034 Senior Notes shall be authenticated and delivered
except as provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original
Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2034
Senior Notes may be increased in the future, without the consent of the holders
of the 2034 Senior Notes, subject to the conditions set forth in the Indenture
and with the same CUSIP numbers and ISINs as the 2034 Senior Notes. The
Additional 2034 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully registered form.

         The Additional 2034 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or
more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto.
The Depositary with respect to the Additional 2034 Senior Notes shall be The
Depository Trust Company.

         The form of the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication for the
Additional 2034 Senior Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in
Exhibit B hereto.

         Each Additional 2034 Senior Note shall be dated the date of
authentication thereof and shall bear interest from June 3, 2004 or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for.

SECTION 1.02.     Definitions.

         Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided
herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture, as
supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture.

                                   ARTICLE II

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

SECTION 2.01.     Recitals by the Company.

         The recitals in this Tenth Supplemental Indenture are made by the
Company only and not by the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the
Original Indenture in respect of the rights, privileges, immunities, powers and
duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of

2

the Additional 2034 Senior Notes and of this Tenth Supplemental Indenture as
fully and with like effect as if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 2.02.     Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture.

         As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture and the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture are in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the
Original Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture and this Tenth
Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same
instrument.

SECTION 2.03.     Executed in Counterparts.

         This Tenth Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in
several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such
counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.

3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be
signed in its name and behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day
and year first above written.

                                METLIFE, INC.

                                By: /s/ Anthony J. Williamson
                                    ------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  Anthony J. Williamson
                                    Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL
                                ASSOCIATION

                                By: /s/ J. Michael Banas
                                    ------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  J. Michael Banas
                                    Title: Vice President

4

EXHIBIT A

                  FORM OF 6.375% SENIOR NOTE DUE JUNE 15, 2034

         THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL
INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY ("DTC"), A NEW YORK
CORPORATION, TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER,
EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF
CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS
REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER
USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS
THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

         EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE,
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE
OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR
DEPOSITARY.

A-1

No. ____                                                     CUSIP No. 59156RAJ7
                                                             ISIN US59156RAJ77

METLIFE, INC.
                               6.375% Senior Note
                                Due June 15, 2034

Principal Amount:        $350,000,000

Regular Record Date:     With respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close
                         of business on the preceding May 31 or November 30, as
                         the case may be

Issue Date:              July 23, 2004

Stated Maturity:         June 15, 2034

Interest Payment Dates:  June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2004

Interest Rate            6.375% per year

Authorized Denomination  $2,000

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company," which term
includes any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the
reverse hereof), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _________, or
registered assigns, the principal sum of _________ ($_________) on the Stated
Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from June 3, 2004, or from the
most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly
provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date as
specified above, commencing on December 15, 2004, and on the Stated Maturity at
the rate per year shown above until the principal hereof is paid or made
available for payment and on any overdue principal and on any overdue
installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other
than an Interest Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in
the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note is registered at
the close of business on the Regular Record Date as specified above next
preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any
such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith
cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may be paid
as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

         Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note
shall be computed and paid on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve
30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this
Note is not a Business Day, then payment of the interest payable

A-2

on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and
without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except
that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment
shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the
same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

         Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of
this Note shall be made upon surrender of this Note at the Corporate Trust
Office of the Trustee. The principal of and interest on this Note shall be paid
in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of
payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of
interest (including interest on an Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject
to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the Company, (i) by check
mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to
such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated
in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the
Person entitled thereto.

         The Senior Notes (as defined on the reverse hereof) will be unsecured
obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with all of
the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company from time to
time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

         REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET
FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES
HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly
executed under its corporate seal.

                                       METLIFE, INC.

By:
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           Name:
                                           Title:

Attest:

------------------------
Name:
Title:

                             [Seal of MetLife, Inc.]

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

                                       J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                       NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                       By:
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           Authorized Officer

A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

         This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of senior notes of the
Company issued and issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of
November 9, 2001 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Eighth
Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2004 (the "Eighth Supplemental
Indenture") and as further supplemented by the Tenth Supplemental Indenture
dated as of July 23, 2004 (the "Tenth Supplemental Indenture" and, together with
the Original Indenture and the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"),
between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as
successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which
term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and
all indentures incidental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of
the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder
of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes issued
thereunder and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be,
authenticated and delivered. This Senior Note is one of the series designated on
the face hereof as 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 (the "Senior Notes"),
limited in aggregate principal amount of $750,000,000; provided, however, that
the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be increased in the
future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, subject to the
conditions set forth in the Indenture and with the same CUSIP numbers and ISINs
as the Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is
provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

         This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for
Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form only as provided
herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any time the Depositary notifies the
Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note
or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be registered or in good
standing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other
applicable statute or regulation, and the Company does not appoint a successor
Depositary within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes
aware of such condition, as the case may be, or (ii) the Company in its sole
discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of
this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the
Security Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall
be so exchangeable, this Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this
series in definitive registered form, provided that the definitive Senior Notes
so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of $2,000 and any
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000, without coupons, and be of like
aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be
exchanged. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note
will not be entitled to have Senior Notes registered in their names, will not
receive or be entitled to physical delivery of Senior Notes in definitive
registered form and will not be considered the holders thereof for any purpose
under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the
Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of
records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership
interests in this Note, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records
relating to such beneficial ownership interests.

A-5

If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and
be continuing, the principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable
in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the
Indenture.

         The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the
amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the
Company and the rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at
any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not
less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes at the
time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the holders
of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance
by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past
defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver
by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such holder and
upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

         The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the
entire indebtedness of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive
covenants and the related Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with
certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.

         The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in
whole at any time or in part from time to time (a "Redemption Date"), at a
redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and (ii) an amount equal
to the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments for
principal of and interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed, not including any
portion of the payments of interest accrued as of such Redemption Date,
discounted to such Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day
year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, plus 15 basis
points; plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Senior Notes to be
redeemed to, but excluding, such Redemption Date.

         "Treasury Rate" means the rate per year equal to the semi-annual
equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using
a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its
principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption
Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated on the third Business Day preceding
the Redemption Date.

         "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security
selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to
the remaining term of the Senior Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at
the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in
pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the
remaining term of the Senior Notes.

         "Independent Investment Banker" means any of Banc of America Securities
LLC and any successor firm or, if such firm is unwilling or unable to select the
Comparable Treasury Issue, an

A-6

independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the
Trustee after consultation with the Company.

         "Comparable Treasury Price" means with respect to any Redemption Date
for the Senior Notes (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest of such
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than
five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such
quotations.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Banc of America Securities
LLC and four other primary U.S. government securities dealers (each a "Primary
Treasury Dealer"), as specified by the Company; provided that (1) if any of Banc
of America Securities LLC or any Primary Treasury Dealer as specified by the
Company shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute
therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) if the Company fails to select
a substitute within a reasonable period of time, then the substitute will be a
Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Trustee after consultation with the
Company.

         "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to the
Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by
the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue
(expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in
writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York
City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.

         Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of
redemption with respect to the foregoing redemption need not set forth the
Redemption Price but only the manner of calculation thereof.

         The Company shall notify the Trustee of the Redemption Price with
respect to the foregoing redemption promptly after the calculation thereof. The
Trustee shall not be responsible for calculating said Redemption Price.

         If less than all of the Senior Notes are to be redeemed, the Trustee
will select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed by such
method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. The Trustee may select for
redemption Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of $2,000 and
whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000.

         No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or
of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is
absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at
the time, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.

         As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein
set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register,
upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency
of the Company for such purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written
instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly
authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized
denominations and of like tenor and for the same aggregate principal amount,
will be issued to the designated transferee or

A-7

transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such exchange or
registration of transfer, but the Company will require payment of a sum
sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection
therewith.

         Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the
Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent and the Security Registrar of the Company
or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this Note is
registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this
Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notice of ownership or writing thereon
made by anyone other than the Security Registrar, and neither the Company nor
the Trustee nor any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar shall be affected by
notice to the contrary.

         The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons
in denominations of $2,000 and whole multiples of $1,000 in excess of $2,000. As
provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth,
Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Senior
Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the holder
surrendering the same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be
exchanged at the office or agency of the Company.

         No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on
this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or
based on or in respect of the Indenture, against any incorporator, stockholder,
officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of the Company or of any
predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or
otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.

         Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by
the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit
under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.

         This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
internal laws of the State of New York.

A-8

ABBREVIATIONS

         The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face
of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common        UNIF GIFT MIN ACT - Custodian under
                                      Uniform Gift to Minors Act

-----------------------------------
                                      (State)

TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties

JT TEN  - as joint tenants with right of
          survivorship and not as tenants in common

Additional abbreviations may also be used
                          though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF
ASSIGNEE

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and
appointing

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

A-9

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated:
       ---------------

                                        NOTICE: The signature to this assignment
                                        must correspond with the name as written
                                        upon the face of the within instrument
                                        in every particular without alteration
                                        or enlargement, or any change whatever.

A-10

EXHIBIT B

                          CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

         This is one of the 6.375% Senior Notes due June 15, 2034 referred to in
the within-mentioned Indenture.

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY,
                                       NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee

                                       By:
                                           -----------------------------------
                                           Authorized Officer

B-1

</EX-4.10>

<EX-4.11>
 7
 y81517exv4w11.htm
 EX-4.11

exv4w11 

Exhibit 4.11

METLIFE, INC.,

Issuer

and

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
(as successor to BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.),

Trustee

ELEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE

DATED AS OF DECEMBER 9, 2004

350,000,000

5.375% Senior Notes

Due December 9, 2024

TABLE OF CONTENTS   1  

1  
       
     This Table of Contents does not constitute
part of the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture and shall not have any bearing on
the interpretation of any of its terms or provisions. 

THIS ELEVENTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE is made as of the 9th day of December, 2004, by and
between METLIFE, INC., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), and J.P. MORGAN TRUST
COMPANY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), a national banking
corporation, as trustee (the   Trustee  , which term includes any successor trustee):

WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of November 9, 2001
(the   Original Indenture  ), with the Trustee;

WHEREAS, the Original Indenture is incorporated herein by this reference and the Original
Indenture, as supplemented by the this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the
  Indenture  

WHEREAS, under the Original Indenture a new series of senior notes may at any time be
established by the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of the
Original Indenture or the terms of such series may be described by a supplemental indenture
executed by the Company and the Trustee;

WHEREAS, the Company proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of senior notes;

WHEREAS, additional senior notes of other series hereafter established, except as may be
limited in the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified, may be issued from time
to time pursuant to the Original Indenture as at the time supplemented and modified; and

WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement
of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for
other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties
hereto hereby agree as follows:

ARTICLE I

5.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE DECEMBER 9, 2024

SECTION 1.01.  Establishment .

(a) There is hereby established a new series of senior notes to be issued under the Indenture,
to be designated as the Company s 5.375% Senior Notes due December 9, 2024 (the   2024 Senior
Notes  ).

(b) There are to be authenticated and delivered 2024 Senior Notes, initially limited in
aggregate principal amount of  350,000,000, and no further 2024 Senior Notes shall be authenticated
and delivered except as provided by Section 2.05, 2.07, 2.11, 3.03 or 9.04 of the Original
Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Senior Notes may be
increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the 2024 Senior Notes, on the same
terms and with the same ISIN number and Common Code as the initially issued 2024 Senior Notes. The
2024 Senior Notes shall be issued in fully registered form.

(c) The 2024 Senior Notes shall be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities, in
substantially the form set out in  Exhibit A  hereto (the   Form of 2024 Senior
Note  ), registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited, as nominee of the common depositary,
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch, for Clearstream Banking, societ  anonyme Luxembourg; and
Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as more fully described in Section 1.05 of this Eleventh Supplemental
Indenture.

(d) The form of the Trustee s Certificate of Authentication for the 2024 Senior Notes shall be
substantially in the form set forth in  Exhibit B  hereto.

(e) Each 2024 Senior Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear
interest from the Original Issue Date or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which
interest has been paid or duly provided for.

SECTION 1.02.  Definitions .

(a) The following defined terms used herein shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have
the meanings specified below. Capitalized terms used herein for which no definition is provided
herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture.

Additional Amounts   means any additional amounts which may be required by a 2024
Senior Note, under the circumstances specified herein or therein, to be paid by the Company in
respect of certain taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on beneficial holders
specified therein and which are owing to such beneficial holders.

Conversion Event   means the cessation of use of (i) a Foreign Currency both by the
government of the country or the confederation which issued such Foreign Currency and for the
settlement of transactions by a central bank or other public institutions of or within the
international banking community or (ii) any currency unit or composite currency for the purposes
for which it was established.

Dollars   means a dollar or other equivalent unit of legal tender for payment of
public or private debts in the United States of America.

Foreign Currency   means, with respect to any payment, deposit or other transfer in
respect of principal (whether at the Stated Maturity of the 2024 Senior Notes, upon redemption, or
otherwise) of, premium, if any, or interest on, or Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of any
2024 Senior Note, Pounds Sterling or, if the United Kingdom adopts the euro as its lawful currency
in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Communities, as amended from time to time,
euros.

2

Interest Payment Date   means December 9 of each year, commencing December 9, 2005.

Original Issue Date   means December 9, 2004.

Pounds Sterling   or       means the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.

Regular Record Date   means, with respect to each Interest Payment Date, the close of
business on the preceding November 30.

Stated Maturity   means December 9, 2024.

SECTION 1.03.  Payment of Principal and Interest. 

(a) The principal of the 2024 Senior Notes shall be due at Stated Maturity. The unpaid
principal amount of the 2024 Senior Notes shall bear interest at the rate of 5.375% per year until
paid or duly provided for. Additional Amounts, if any, will also be payable in respect of the 2024
Senior Notes, as provided in Section 7 of the Form of 2024 Senior Note. Interest shall be paid
annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date, commencing December 9, 2005, to the Persons in
whose names the 2024 Senior Notes are registered on the Regular Record Date for such Interest
Payment Date, provided that interest payable at the Stated Maturity of principal will be paid to
the Persons to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that is not so punctually paid or duly
provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on such Regular Record Date and may
be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

(b) Payments of interest on the 2024 Senior Notes will include interest accrued to but
excluding the respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for the 2024 Senior Notes shall
be computed and paid on an Actual/Actual (ISMA) day fraction basis. Actual/Actual (ISMA) means that
interest on the 2024 Senior Notes shall be calculated on the basis of (i) the actual number of days
in the period from and including the last Interest Payment Date (or the Original Issue Date with
respect to the first Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the date on which the Interest Payment
Date falls divided by (ii) the product of (x) the actual number of days in the period from and
including the last Interest Payment Date (or the Original Issue Date with respect to the first
Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the date on which the Interest Payment Date falls and (y)
the number of Interest Payment Dates per year.

(c) In the event that any date on which interest is payable on the 2024 Senior Notes is not a
Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next
succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any
such delay), except that, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, such
payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force
and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable.

For purposes of the foregoing,   Business Day   means any day, other than a day on which
federal or state banking institutions in London or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York,
are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.

3

(d) The principal of and premium, if any, and interest on and Additional Amounts, if any,
payable in respect of the 2024 Senior Notes shall be payable in Pounds Sterling.

(e) In accordance with Section 2.01(14) of the Original Indenture and for the purposes of the
definition of  Outstanding  in Section 1.01 of the Original Indenture, the principal amount of a
2024 Senior Note that shall be deemed Outstanding as of any date of calculation shall be the
equivalent in Dollars determined as of such calculation date by using the rate of exchange quoted
by Reuters at 10:00 a.m. (New York time) for spot purchases of Dollars with the Foreign Currency,
including any premiums payable and costs of exchange.

(f) All payments of principal (and Redemption Price as defined in Section 6 of the Form of
2024 Senior Note, or Tax Redemption Price, as defined in Section 7(b) of the Form of 2024 Senior
Note, if any) of, interest on and Additional Amounts, if any, in respect of the 2024 Senior Notes
will be made upon surrender of the 2024 Senior Notes at the office or agency of J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association which will be the U.S. Paying Agent in the Borough of Manhattan, The
City of New York, at the main office in London, England of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch
which will be the London Paying Agent and, for so long as the 2024 Senior Notes are listed on the
Irish Stock Exchange, at the main office in Dublin, Ireland, of J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc
which will be the Irish Paying Agent in Dublin, Ireland.

(g) The principal of and interest on the 2024 Senior Notes shall be paid in such coin or
currency of the United Kingdom as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts. Payments of interest (including interest and any Additional Amounts on any Interest
Payment Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of the
Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall
appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a
banking institution in the United Kingdom as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least
15 days prior to the date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

(h) Pursuant to Sections 2.05(b) and 4.03 of the Original Indenture and Section 2.05 of this
Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association will be the
registrar, U.S. paying agent and U.S. transfer agent for the 2024 Senior Notes, JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A., London branch will be the London paying agent and transfer agent for the 2024 Senior
Notes and J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc will be the Irish paying agent and transfer agent for the
2024 Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.04.  Denominations .

The 2024 Senior Notes may be issued in denominations of  50,000, or whole multiples of  1,000
in excess of  50,000.

SECTION 1.05.  Global Securities .

(a) The 2024 Senior Notes will be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities
registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited, as nominee of the common depositary, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., London branch (the   Common Depositary  ), for Clearstream Banking, societ 
anonyme, Luxembourg, and Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. Except

4

under the limited circumstances described below, 2024 Senior Notes represented by Global
Securities will not be exchangeable for, and will not otherwise be issuable as, 2024 Senior Notes
in definitive form. The Global Securities described above may not be transferred except by the
Common Depositary to a nominee of the Common Depositary or by a nominee of the Common Depositary or
the Common Depositary or another nominee of the Common Depository or to a successor Common
Depositary or its nominee.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, owners of beneficial
interests in such Global Securities will not be considered the holders thereof for any purpose
under the Indenture, and no Global Security representing a 2024 Senior Note shall be exchangeable,
except for another Global Security of like denomination and tenor to be registered in the name of
the Common Depositary or its nominee or to a successor Common Depositary or its nominee. The
rights of holders of such Global Securities shall be exercised only through the Common Depositary.

(c) A Global Security shall be exchangeable for 2024 Senior Notes registered in the names of
Persons other than the Common Depositary or its nominee only as provided by Section 2.11(c) of the
Original Indenture. Any Global Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence
shall be exchangeable for 2024 Senior Notes registered in such names as the Common Depositary shall
direct.

SECTION 1.06.  Transfer .

No service charge will be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of 2024 Senior
Notes, but payment will be required of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.

SECTION 1.07.  Defeasance .

The provisions of Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Original Indenture will apply to the 2024
Senior Notes.

SECTION 1.08.  Redemption at the Option of the Company .

(a) The 2024 Senior Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole at any
time or in part from time to time pursuant to Section 6 of the Form of 2024 Senior Note. The
Company may also redeem the 2024 Senior Notes upon the occurrence of certain tax events pursuant to
Section 7(b) of the Form of 2024 Senior Note.

(b) Notwithstanding Section 3.02 of the Original Indenture, the notice of redemption with
respect to the redemption specified in Section 6 of the Form of 2024 Senior Note need not set forth
the redemption price, but only the manner of calculation thereof. Notices of redemption of 2024
Senior Notes shall state that payment of the redemption price of such Securities to be redeemed
shall be made at the offices or agencies of the Company set forth in Section 1.03(f) of this
Eleventh Supplemental Indenture and shall specify the ISIN No. and Common Code of such Securities.

SECTION 1.09.  Notices .

5

If the Company is required to give notice to the holders of the 2024 Senior Notes pursuant to
the terms of the Indenture, then it shall do so by the means and in the manner set forth in the
Original Indenture. In addition, the Trustee shall publish notices regarding the 2024 Senior Notes
in a daily newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York and in London and, for so long
as the 2024 Senior Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and the rules of such exchange
require notice by publication, in a daily newspaper of general circulation in Dublin, Ireland.
Initially, such publication shall be made in The City of New York in  The Wall Street Journal,  in
London in the  Financial Times  and in Ireland in the  Irish Times.  If publication in Dublin, Ireland
is not practical, the Trustee will publish notices in an English language newspaper of general
circulation elsewhere in Europe. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of
publication or, if published more than once, on the date of the first publication. If publication
as described above becomes impossible, the Trustee may publish sufficient notice by alternative
means that approximate the terms and conditions described in this Section 1.09.

ARTICLE II

MATTERS RELATING TO SECURITIES DENOMINATED IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY

SECTION 2.01.  Currency Indemnity .

The Company agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so under applicable law,
that (a) if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum
due in respect of the principal of, or premium or interest, if any, on or Additional Amounts, if
any, in respect of, the 2024 Senior Notes (the   Required Currency  ) into a currency in
which a judgment will be rendered (the   Judgment Currency  ), the rate of exchange used
shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase
in The City of New York the requisite amount of the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on
the New York Banking Day preceding the day on which a final unappealable judgment is given and (b)
its obligations under the Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency (i) shall not be
satisfied or discharged by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not
entered in accordance with clause (a)), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to
the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the
full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments, (ii)
shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering
in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the
full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable and (iii) shall not be affected by
judgment being obtained for any other sum due under the Indenture. For purposes of the foregoing,
  New York Banking Day   means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday in The
City of New York or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or
obligated by law, regulation or executive order to be closed.

SECTION 2.02.  Satisfaction and Discharge .

Whenever a payment, deposit or transfer is required to be made under the Indenture in respect
of the 2024 Senior Notes, the Company s obligation to make such payment, deposit or transfer shall
not be satisfied or discharged unless and until such payment, deposit or transfer

6

shall be made in the Foreign Currency in which the 2024 Senior Notes are then payable
including, without limitation, principal (whether at the Stated Maturity of the 2024 Senior Notes,
upon redemption or otherwise) of, premium, if any, and interest on, and Additional Amounts, if any,
in respect of any 2024 Senior Note.

SECTION 2.03.  Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance .

(a) Without limiting the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture,
but subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section 2.03, all deposits, if any, of
money made under Articles XI (Satisfaction and Discharge) and XIII (Defeasance and Covenant
Defeasance) of the Original Indenture shall be made by the Company in the Foreign Currency in which
the 2024 Senior Notes are then payable.

(b) If, after a deposit referred to in Section 13.04(1) of the Original Indenture has been
made in respect of 2024 Senior Notes, a Conversion Event occurs in respect of the Foreign Currency
in which the deposit pursuant to Section 13.04(1) has been made, the indebtedness represented by
such 2024 Senior Notes shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully satisfied and discharged
through the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), and interest, if any, on, and
Additional Amounts, if any, with respect to, such Securities as the same becomes due out of the
proceeds yielded by converting the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Securities
into the Foreign Currency in which such Securities become payable as a result of such Conversion
Event based on the applicable market exchange rate for such Foreign Currency in effect (as nearly
as feasible) at the time of such Conversion Event.

(c) The
term   Governmental Obligations  , when used with respect to the 2024 Senior Notes
shall mean securities that are (i) direct obligations of the United States of America or the other
government or governments or confederation or association of governments which issued the Foreign
Currency in which the principal of or any premium or interest on such Securities or any Additional
Amounts in respect thereof shall be payable, in each case for the payment or payments of which the
full faith and credit of such government or governments or confederation or association of
governments are pledged or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as
an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America or such other government or
governments or confederation or association of governments, in each case the timely payment or
payments of which are unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the
United States of America or such other government or governments or confederation or association of
governments, and which, in the case of (i) or (ii), are not callable or redeemable at the option of
the issuer or issuers thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as
defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to
any such Governmental Obligation or a specific payment of principal of, or interest on, or other
amount with respect to any such Governmental Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the
holder of a depository receipt; provided, however, that (except as required by law) such custodian
is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository
receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the
Governmental Obligation or the
specific payment of principal of, or interest on or other amount with
respect to the Governmental
Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.

7

SECTION 2.04.  Distributions .

Whenever the Indenture provides for distributions to holders of Securities, any amount in
respect of any 2024 Senior Note denominated in a Foreign Currency shall be treated for any such
distribution as the equivalent in Dollars determined as of the record date with respect to such
2024 Senior Notes for such distribution (or if there is no applicable record date, such other date
reasonably proximate to the date of such distribution) by using the rate of exchange quoted by
Reuters at 10:00 a.m. (New York time) for spot purchases of Dollars with the Foreign Currency,
including any premiums payable and costs of exchange.

SECTION 2.05.  Undertakings .

(a) If the 2024 Senior Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and such stock exchange
shall so require, the Company will maintain a Paying Agent for such Securities in Dublin, Ireland,
or any other required city located in Ireland, for so long as such Securities are listed on such
exchange and, subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for such
Securities located in Ireland, an office for registration of transfer or exchange of such
Securities.

(b) J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is hereby appointed the Calculation Agent
in respect of the 2024 Senior Notes. As long as the 2024 Senior Notes are subject to redemption at
the option of the Company pursuant to Section 6 of the Form of 2024 Senior Note, the Company shall
maintain a Calculation Agent for such Securities to perform the duties described in said Section 6.

SECTION 2.06.  Conversion Event .

If at any time prior to the maturity of the 2024 Senior Notes, there is a Conversion Event
such that the United Kingdom adopts the euro as its lawful currency in accordance with the Treaty
establishing the European Communities, as amended from time to time, the 2024 Senior Notes shall be
re-denominated into euro, the regulations of the European Commission relating to the euro shall
apply to the 2024 Senior Notes and the references in, and obligations arising under, the Indenture
expressed in Pounds Sterling shall be translated into euro at the official rate of exchange
recognized for that purpose by the Bank of England on the date of such Conversion Event or such
other date reasonably proximate to such Conversion Event.

ARTICLE III

MATTERS RELATING TO ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS

SECTION 3.01.  Additional Amounts .

For the purposes of the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Eleventh Supplemental
Indenture, all references in the Indenture and the 2024 Senior Notes to interest payable on the
2024 Senior Notes shall be deemed to include references to Additional Amounts, if any, payable in
respect of the 2024 Senior Notes.

8

ARTICLE IV

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SECTION 4.01.  Recitals by the Company .

The recitals in this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture are made by the Company only and not by
the Trustee, and all of the provisions contained in the Original Indenture in respect of the
rights, privileges, immunities, powers and duties of the Trustee shall be applicable in respect of
the 2024 Senior Notes and of this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture as fully and with like effect as
if set forth herein in full.

SECTION 4.02.  Ratification and Incorporation of Original Indenture .

As supplemented hereby, the Original Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and
the Original Indenture and this Eleventh Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed
as one and the same instrument.

SECTION 4.03.  Executed in Counterparts .

This Eleventh Supplemental Indenture may be simultaneously executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts shall together constitute
but one and the same instrument.

9

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each party hereto has caused this instrument to be signed in its name and
behalf by its duly authorized officers, all as of the day and year first above written.

METLIFE, INC. 

By:   

 /s/
Anthony J. Williamson 

Name:   
     Anthony J. Williamson  

Title:   
     Senior Vice President and Treasurer  

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, NATIONAL 
ASSOCIATION 

By:   

 /s/
J. Michael Banas 

Name:   
     J. Michael Banas  

Title:   
     Vice President  

10

EXHIBIT A

Form of 5.375% Senior Note Due December 9, 2024 

THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER
REFERRED TO. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF CLEARSTREAM
BANKING, SOCIET  ANONYME LUXEMBOURG (  CLEARSTREAM  ) OR EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V.
(  EUROCLEAR  ) TO METLIFE, INC. OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR
PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CHASE NOMINEES LIMITED, AS NOMINEE
OF THE COMMON DEPOSITARY, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH (THE   COMMON
DEPOSITARY  ) OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF
CLEARSTREAM OR EUROCLEAR (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CHASE NOMINEES LIMITED OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY
AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF CLEARSTREAM OR EUROCLEAR), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE
OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE
REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CHASE NOMINEES LIMITED, HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.

EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE PROVIDED IN SECTION 2.11 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE (AS DEFINED HEREIN),
THIS NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, ONLY TO ANOTHER NOMINEE OF CLEARSTREAM OR
EUROCLEAR OR TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR TO A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.

A-1

Common Code: 020763671

METLIFE, INC. 
5.375% Senior Note 
Due December 9, 2024

MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company ,  which term includes any
successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof), for value received,
hereby promises to pay to             , or registered assigns, the principal sum of              POUNDS
STERLING (             ) on the Stated Maturity shown above, and to pay interest thereon from the
Original Issue Date shown above, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest
has been paid or duly provided for, annually in arrears on each Interest Payment Date as specified
above, commencing on December 9, 2005, and on the Stated Maturity at the rate per year shown above
until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment and on any overdue principal and
on any overdue installment of interest to the extent permitted by law. The interest so payable,
and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest
Payment Date that is the Stated Maturity) will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person
in whose name this Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date as
specified above next preceding such Interest Payment Date, provided that any interest payable at
Stated Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom principal is payable. Any such interest that is
not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the holders on
such Regular Record Date and may be paid as provided in Section 2.03 of the Original Indenture.

A-2

Payments of interest on this Note will include interest accrued to but excluding the
respective Interest Payment Dates. Interest payments for this Note shall be computed and paid on an
Actual/Actual (ISMA) day fraction basis. Actual/Actual (ISMA) means that interest on this Note
shall be calculated on the basis of (a) the actual number of days in the period from and including
the last Interest Payment Date (or the Original Issue Date with respect to the first Interest
Payment Date) to but excluding the date on which the Interest Payment Date falls divided by (b) the
product of (x) the actual number of days in the period from and including the last Interest Payment
Date (or the Original Issue Date with respect to the first Interest Payment Date) to but excluding
the date on which the Interest Payment Date falls and (y) the number of Interest Payment Dates per
year. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this Note is not a Business Day,
then payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a
Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), except that,
if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar year, payment shall be made on the
immediately preceding Business Day, in each case with the same force and effect as if made on the
date the payment was originally payable. The term   Business Day   means any day, other than
a day on which federal or state banking institutions in London or the Borough of Manhattan, The
City of New York, are authorized or obligated by law, executive order or regulation to close.

Payment of the principal and interest due at the Stated Maturity of this Note shall be made
upon surrender of this Note at the office or agency of any of the U.S. Paying Agent (as defined
herein) in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, the London Paying Agent (as defined
herein) in London and, for so long as the Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, the Irish
Paying Agent (as defined herein) in Dublin, Ireland. The principal of and interest on this Note
shall be paid in such coin or currency of the United Kingdom as at the time of payment is legal
tender for payment of public and private debts. Payment of interest (including interest on an
Interest Payment Date) will be made, subject to such surrender where applicable, at the option of
the Company, (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address
shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer at such place and to such account at
a banking institution in the United Kingdom as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least
15 days prior to the date for payment by the Person entitled thereto.

The Senior Notes (as defined herein) will be unsecured obligations of the Company and will
rank equally in right of payment with all of the other unsecured, unsubordinated indebtedness of
the Company from time to time outstanding. The Senior Notes will rank senior to any subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.

REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS NOTE SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE
HEREOF, WHICH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS IF SET FORTH AT
THIS PLACE.

Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual
signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

A-3

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its
corporate seal.

METLIFE, INC. 

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Attest:  

Name:

Title:

Seal of MetLife, Inc. 

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This is one of the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 9, 2024 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
as Trustee 

By:   

Authorized Officer  

A-4

(Reverse Side of Note)

1. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of senior notes of the Company issued and
issuable in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of November 9, 2001 (the   Original
Indenture  ), as supplemented by the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 9,
2004 (the   Eleventh Supplemental Indenture  ) and, together with the Original Indenture, the
  Indenture  ), between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as
successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), as Trustee (the   Trustee ,  which term includes
any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures incidental
thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights,
duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the holders of the Senior Notes
issued thereunder and of the terms upon which said Senior Notes are, and are to be, authenticated
and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof as 5.375% Senior Notes
due December 9, 2024 (the   Senior Notes  ), initially limited in aggregate principal amount
of  350,000,000; provided, however, that the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes may be
increased in the future, without the consent of the holders of the Senior Notes, on the same terms
and with the same ISIN number and Common Code as the Senior Notes. Capitalized terms used herein
for which no definition is provided herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.

2. This Note is exchangeable in whole or from time to time in part for Senior Notes of this
series in definitive registered form only as provided herein and in the Indenture. If (i) at any
time the Common Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as
Common Depositary for this Note, and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90
days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such condition, as the case may be,
or (ii) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Note shall be exchangeable for
Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form and executes and delivers to the Security
Registrar a written order of the Company providing that this Note shall be so exchangeable, this
Note shall be exchangeable for Senior Notes of this series in definitive registered form, provided
that the definitive Senior Notes so issued in exchange for this Note shall be in denominations of
 50,000 and any whole multiples of  1,000 in excess of  50,000, without coupons, and be of like
aggregate principal amount and tenor as the portion of this Note to be exchanged. Except as
provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Note will not be entitled to have Senior
Notes registered in their names, will not receive or be entitled to physical delivery of Senior
Notes in definitive registered form and will not be considered the holders thereof for any purpose
under the Indenture. Neither the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent nor the Security Registrar
shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of records relating to or payments made
on account of beneficial ownership interests in this Note, or for maintaining, supervising or
reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests.

3. If an Event of Default with respect to the Senior Notes shall occur and be continuing, the
principal of the Senior Notes may be declared due and payable in the manner, with the effect and
subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture.

4. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof
and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the

A-5

rights of the holders of the Senior Notes under the Indenture at any time by the Company and
the Trustee with the consent of the holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal
amount of the Senior Notes at the time Outstanding. The Indenture also contains provisions
permitting the holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Senior Notes at the time
Outstanding, on behalf of the holders of all Senior Notes, to waive compliance by the Company with
certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their
consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding
upon such holder and upon all future holders of this Note and of any Senior Note issued upon the
registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of
such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.

5. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness
of the Company pursuant to this Note and (b) restrictive covenants and the related Events of
Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions
apply to this Note.

6. (a) The Senior Notes will be redeemable, at the option of the Company, in whole at any time
or in part from time to time (a   Redemption Date  ), at a redemption price (the
  Redemption Price  ) equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Senior
Notes to be redeemed and (ii) as determined by the Calculation Agent, the price at which the yield
on the Outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes on the Reference Date is equal to the yield
on the Benchmark Gilt as of that date as determined by reference to the middle-market price on the
Benchmark Gilt at 3:00 p.m., London time, on that date, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid
interest on the Senior Notes to be redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.

Benchmark Gilt   means the 5% Treasury Stock due March 7, 2025 or such other U.K.
government stock as the Calculation Agent, with the advice of three brokers and/or U.K. gilt-edged
market makers or three other persons operating in the U.K. gilt-edged market that may be chosen by
the Calculation Agent, may determine from time to time to be the most appropriate benchmark U.K.
government stock for the Senior Notes.

Calculation Agent   means J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, or any
successor entity.

Reference Date   means the date that is the first dealing day in London prior to the
publication of the notice of redemption referred to in Section 6(b) below.

(b) Not less than 30 days but not more than 90 days before the Redemption Date, notice of any
redemption will be mailed to each holder of the Senior Notes to be redeemed and published as
provided in Section 12 hereof.

(c) If less than all the Senior Notes at the time Outstanding are to be redeemed, the Trustee
will select the Senior Notes or portions of Senior Notes to be redeemed in compliance with the
rules and requirements of the Irish Stock Exchange or the principal securities exchange, if any, on
which the Senior Notes are listed, or, if the Senior Notes are not so listed or that exchange
prescribes no method of selection, by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate. If
this Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to this

A-6

Note will state the portion of the principal amount hereof to be redeemed. A new Senior Note
in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion hereof shall be issued and delivered to the
Trustee, or its nominee, upon cancellation of this Note. The Trustee may select for redemption
Senior Notes and portions of Senior Notes in amounts of  50,000 and whole multiples of  1,000 in
excess of  50,000.

(d) Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price of the Senior Notes, on and
after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on this Note or the portion hereof called
for redemption.

(e) On or before the opening of business on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit
with the Trustee or with the U.S. Paying Agent (as defined herein), the London Paying Agent (as
defined herein) or the Irish Paying Agent (as defined herein) or, if the Company is acting as its
own paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in the Original Indenture, an amount of
money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and except if the Redemption Date shall be an
Interest Payment Date, accrued but unpaid interest on, the Senior Notes to be redeemed on the
Redemption Date.

7. (a) The Company shall pay to the beneficial owner of this Note who is a Non-U.S. Person (as
defined below) such additional amounts as may be necessary so that every net payment of principal
of and interest on this Note to such beneficial owner, after deduction or withholding for or on
account of any present or future tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed upon such
beneficial owner by the United States of America or any taxing authority thereof or therein, will
not be less than the amount provided in this Note to be then due and payable (such amounts, the
  Additional   Amounts   provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to
make any payment of Additional Amounts for or on account of:

(i) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that would not have been imposed
but for (A) the existence of any present or former connection between such beneficial owner,
or between a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary of, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a
power over, such beneficial owner, if such beneficial owner is an estate, trust, partnership
or corporation, and the United States including, without limitation, such beneficial owner,
or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member, shareholder or possessor, being or having
been a citizen or resident of the United States of America or treated as a resident thereof
or being or having been engaged in trade or business or present in the United States of
America, or (B) the presentation of this Note for payment on a date more than 30 days after
the later of (x) the date on which such payment becomes due and payable and (y) the date on
which payment thereof is duly provided for;

(ii) any estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, excise, personal property or
similar tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

(iii) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed by reason of such
beneficial owner s past or present status as a passive foreign investment company, a
controlled foreign corporation, a personal holding company or foreign personal holding
company with respect to the United States of America, or as a corporation which accumulates
earnings to avoid United States federal income tax;

A-7

(iv) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which is payable otherwise than by
withholding from payment of principal of or interest on this Note;

(v) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge required to be withheld by any
paying agent from any payment of principal of or interest on this Note if that payment can be
made without withholding by any other paying agent;

(vi) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge which would not have been imposed
but for the failure to comply with certification, information, documentation or other
reporting requirements concerning the nationality, residence, identity or connections with
the United States of America of the beneficial owner or any holder of this Note, if such
compliance is required by statute or by regulation of the U.S. Treasury Department as a
precondition to relief or exemption from such tax, assessment or other governmental charge;

(vii) any tax, assessment or other governmental charge imposed on interest received by
(A) a 10% shareholder (as defined in Section 871(h)(3)(B) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the   Code  ), and the regulations that may be promulgated
thereunder) of the Company or (B) a controlled foreign corporation with respect to the
Company within the meaning of the Code;

(viii) any withholding or deduction that is imposed on a payment to an individual and is
required to be made pursuant to that European Union Directive relating to the taxation of
savings adopted on June 3, 2003 by the European Union s Economic and Financial Affairs
Council, or any law implementing or complying with, or introduced in order to conform to,
such Directive; or

(ix) any combination of items (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) in
this Section 7(a);

 nor shall any Additional Amounts be paid to any beneficial owner or holder of this Note who is a
fiduciary or partnership to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to that
fiduciary, or a member of such partnership or a beneficial owner thereof would not have been
entitled to the payment of those Additional Amounts had that beneficiary, settlor, member or
beneficial owner been the beneficial owner of this Note.

Non-U.S. Person   means any corporation, partnership, individual or fiduciary that is,
as to the United States of America, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual who has
not made a valid election to be treated as a United States resident, a non-resident fiduciary of a
foreign estate or trust, or a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, as to the
United States of America, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual or a non-resident
fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.

(b) The Senior Notes may be redeemed at the option of the Company in whole, but not in part,
on a date (such date, the   Tax Redemption Date  ) to be fixed by the Company upon at least
30 days, but not more than 90 days  notice, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal
amount of the Senior Notes (the   Tax Redemption Price  ) plus accrued but unpaid interest,
if any, thereon, if the Company determines that as a result of any change in or amendment

A-8

to the laws, treaties, regulations or rulings of the United States of America or any political
subdivision or taxing authority thereof, or any proposed change in such laws, treaties, regulations
or rulings, or any change in the official application, enforcement or interpretation of such laws,
treaties, regulations or rulings, including a holding by a court of competent jurisdiction in the
United States of America, or any other action (except for an action predicated on law generally
known on or before December 1, 2004 but excluding proposals before the U.S. Congress before such
date) taken by any taxing authority or a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States of
America, or the official proposal of any such action, whether or not such action or proposal was
taken or made with respect to the Company, (1) the Company has or will become obligated to pay
Additional Amounts or (2) there is a substantial possibility that the Company will be required to
pay such Additional Amounts.

Prior to the publication of any notice of redemption pursuant to Section 12 hereof, the
Company shall deliver to the Trustee (1) an Officers  Certificate stating that the Company is
entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the
conditions precedent to the rights of the Company to so redeem have occurred and (2) an Opinion of
Counsel (who shall not be an employee of the Company) to such effect based on such statement of
facts.

If the Company elects to redeem the Senior Notes pursuant to this Section 7(b), then it shall
give notice to the holders pursuant to Section 12 hereof.

On or before the opening of business on any Tax Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit
with the Trustee or with the U.S. Paying Agent, London Paying Agent or the Irish Paying Agent or,
if the Company is acting as its own paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in the
Original Indenture, an amount of money sufficient to pay the Tax Redemption Price of, and except if
such Tax Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date, accrued but unpaid interest on, the
Senior Notes to be redeemed on such Tax Redemption Date.

The notice of redemption having been given as specified above, the Senior Notes shall, on the
Tax Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Tax Redemption Price, and from and after such
date, unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Tax Redemption Price and accrued but
unpaid interest, if any, the Senior Notes shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of the
Senior Notes for redemption in accordance with such notice, the Notes shall be paid by the Company
at the Tax Redemption Price, together with accrued but unpaid interest, if any, to the Tax
Redemption Date.

8. If, prior to the maturity of the Senior Notes, the United Kingdom adopts the euro as its
lawful currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Communities, as amended
from time to time, the Senior Notes will be re-denominated into euro, and the regulations of the
European Commission relating to the euro shall apply to the Senior Notes.

9. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture
shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay
the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place and rate, and in the coin or
currency, herein prescribed.

A-9

10. (a) As provided herein and in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and
therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon
surrender of this Note for registration of transfer or exchange either at the office or agency to
be designated and maintained by the Company for such purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City
of New York or in London or, so long as the Notes are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, in
Dublin, Ireland, or at any of such other offices or agencies as may be designated and maintained by
the Company for such purpose pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture, duly endorsed by, or
accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Security
Registrar and duly executed by, the holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and
thereupon one or more new Senior Notes, of authorized denominations and of like tenor and for the
same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No
service charge shall be made for any such exchange or registration of transfer, but the Company
will require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in
connection therewith.

(b) Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the
Trustee, and any agent of the Company or of the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name
this Note is registered as the absolute owner of this Note (whether or not the Senior Notes shall
be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon made by anyone
other than the Security Registrar), for the purpose of receiving payments hereon, or on account
hereof, and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the
Company or of the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All such payments made
to or upon the order of such holder shall, to the extent of the amount or amounts paid, effectually
satisfy and discharge liability for moneys payable on this Note.

(c) The Senior Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of
 50,000 and whole multiples of  1,000 in excess of  50,000. As provided in the Indenture and
subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Senior Notes are exchangeable for a like
aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by
the holder surrendering the same upon surrender of the Senior Note or Senior Notes to be exchanged
at the office or agency of the Company.

(d) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs of this Section 10, any registration of transfer
or exchange of a Global Note shall be subject to the terms of the legend appearing on the initial
page thereof.

11. J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is hereby appointed the registrar for the
purpose of registering the Senior Notes and transfers and exchanges of the Senior Notes pursuant to
the Indenture and this Note (the   Security Registrar  ), paying agent pursuant to Section
4.03 of the Original Indenture (the   U.S. Paying Agent  ) and transfer agent (the   U.S.
Transfer Agent  ) with respect to the Senior Notes in the United States at its offices in the
Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.

JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., London branch is hereby appointed paying agent pursuant to Section
4.03 of the Original Indenture (the   London Paying Agent  ) and transfer agent (the
  London Transfer Agent  ) with respect to the Senior Notes in the United Kingdom at its
offices in London.

A-10

J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc has been appointed, in connection with the listing of the
Senior Notes on the Irish Stock Exchange, the paying agent pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Original
Indenture (the   Irish Paying Agent  ), and the transfer agent (the   Irish Transfer
Agent  ) with respect to the Senior Notes in Ireland.

If for any reason J.P. Morgan Bank (Ireland) plc shall not continue as Irish Paying Agent or
Irish Transfer Agent and the Senior Notes remain listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, the Company
shall appoint a substitute Irish Paying Agent or Irish Transfer Agent, as the case may be, with an
office in Ireland, in accordance with the rules then in effect of the Irish Stock Exchange and the
provisions of the Indenture, including Section 2.05 of the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, and the
Senior Notes. Following the appointment of the substitute Irish Paying Agent or Irish Transfer
Agent, as the case may be, the Company shall give the holders of the Senior Notes notice of such
appointment pursuant to Section 12 hereof.

12. If the Company is required to give notice to the holders of the Senior Notes pursuant to
the terms of the Indenture, then it shall do so by the means and in the manner set forth in the
Original Indenture.

In addition, the Trustee shall publish notices regarding the Senior Notes in a daily newspaper
of general circulation in The City of New York and in London and, for so long as the Senior Notes
are listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and the rules of such exchange require notice by
publication, in a daily newspaper of general circulation in Dublin, Ireland. Initially, such
publication shall be made in The City of New York in  The Wall Street Journal,  in London in the
 Financial Times  and in Ireland in the  Irish Times.  If publication in Dublin, Ireland is not
practical, the Trustee will publish notices in an English language newspaper of general circulation
elsewhere in Europe. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of publication
or, if published more than once, on the date of the first publication. If publication as described
above becomes impossible, the Trustee may publish sufficient notice by alternative means that
approximate the terms and conditions described in this Section 12.

13. No recourse shall be had for payment of the principal of or interest on this Note, or for
any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture,
against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, past, present or future, as such, of
the Company or of any predecessor or successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution,
statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such
liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof,
expressly waived and released.

14. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual
signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or
obligatory for any purpose.

15. This Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the
State of New York.

A-11

ABBREVIATIONS

The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument,
shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or
regulations:

TEN COM

- as tenants in common

UNIF GIFT MIN ACT   Custodian under
Uniform Gift to Minors Act 

(State) 

TEN ENT

- as tenants by the entireties 

JT TEN

- as joint tenants with right of
survivorship and not as tenants in
common

Additional abbreviations may also be used 
though not on the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto

PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE

(please insert Social Security or other identifying number of assignee)

the within Note and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably constituting and appointing

A-12

agent to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the
premises.

Dated:                     

NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the
name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every
particular without alteration or enlargement, or any change
whatever. 

A-13

EXHIBIT B

CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION

This is one of the 5.375% Senior Notes due December 9, 2024 referred to in the
within-mentioned Indenture.

J.P. MORGAN TRUST COMPANY, 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
as Trustee 

By:   

Authorized Officer  

A-14

</EX-4.11>

<EX-10.12>
 8
 y81517exv10w12.txt
 EX-10.12

EXHIBIT 10.12

METLIFE, INC. 2005 STOCK AND INCENTIVE
COMPENSATION PLAN

Effective April 15, 2005

METLIFE, INC. 2005 STOCK AND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

ARTICLE 1. ESTABLISHMENT, PURPOSE, AND DURATION

         1.1 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLAN. MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), establishes an incentive
compensation plan to be known as the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in this
document.

         The Plan permits the grant of Nonqualified Stock Options, Incentive
Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock
Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash-Based Awards, and Stock-Based
Awards.

         The Plan shall become effective, if approved by the Board and
shareholders, on April 15, 2005 (the "Effective Date") and shall remain in
effect as provided in Section 1.3 hereof.

         1.2 PURPOSE OF THE PLAN. The purpose of the Plan is to promote the
success and enhance the value of the Company and Affiliates by linking the
personal interests of the Participants to those of the Company's shareholders,
and by providing Participants with an incentive for outstanding performance.

         The Plan is further intended to provide flexibility to the Company in
its ability to motivate, attract, and retain the services of Participants upon
whose judgment, interest, and special effort the successful conduct of its
operation largely is dependent.

         1.3 DURATION OF THE PLAN. The Plan shall commence as of the Effective
Date, as described in Section 1.1 herein, and shall remain in effect, subject to
the right of the Committee or the Board to amend or terminate the Plan at any
time pursuant to Article 16 herein, until the earlier of (i) the tenth
anniversary of the Effective Date, or (ii) all Shares subject to the Plan have
been purchased or acquired according to the Plan's provisions.

         1.4 SUCCESSOR PLAN. This Plan shall serve as the successor to the
MetLife, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Predecessor Plan"), and no further
grants shall be made under the Predecessor Plan from and after the Effective
Date of this Plan. All outstanding awards under the Predecessor Plan immediately
prior to the Effective Date of this Plan are hereby incorporated into this Plan
and shall accordingly be treated as Awards under this Plan. However, each such
award shall continue to be governed solely by the terms and conditions of the
instrument evidencing such grant or issuance, and, except as otherwise expressly
provided herein or by the Committee, no provision of this Plan shall affect or
otherwise modify the rights or obligations of holders of such incorporated
awards.

         Any Shares of common stock reserved for issuance under the Predecessor
Plan in excess of the number of Shares as to which awards have been awarded
thereunder shall be transferred into this Plan upon the Effective Date and shall
become available for grant under this Plan. Any Shares related to awards granted
or issued under the Predecessor Plan that after the Effective Date may lapse,
expire, terminate, or are cancelled, are settled in cash in lieu of common
stock, are tendered (either by actual delivery or attestation) to pay the option
price, or are used to satisfy any tax withholding requirements shall be deemed
available for issuance or reissuance under Section 4.1 of this Plan.

ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS

         Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning
set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the
word shall be capitalized.

         2.1      "AFFILIATE" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
                  Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the
                  Exchange Act, with reference to the Company, and shall also
                  include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited
                  liability company, or other entity in which the Company owns,
                  directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the
                  total combined Voting Power of such corporation or of the
                  capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or
                  other entity.

         2.2      "AGENCY" means the active relationship between an Agent and an
                  insurance company for which the Agent is licensed.

         2.3      "AGENT" means a natural person licensed or otherwise
                  authorized under applicable law to represent the Company or an
                  Affiliate in the sale of insurance or other financial products
                  or services.

         2.4      "AWARD" means, individually or collectively, a grant under
                  this Plan of NQSOs, ISOs, SARs, Restricted Stock, Restricted
                  Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash-Based
                  Awards, or Stock-Based Awards, in each case subject to the
                  terms of this Plan.

         2.5      "AWARD AGREEMENT" means either (i) a written agreement entered
                  into by the Company or an Affiliate and a Participant setting
                  forth the terms and provisions applicable to Awards granted
                  under this Plan; or (ii) a written statement issued by the
                  Company or an Affiliate to a Participant describing the terms
                  and provisions of such Award.

         2.6      "BENEFICIAL OWNER" OR "BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP" shall have the
                  meaning ascribed to such term in rule 13d-3 of the General
                  Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.

         2.7      "BOARD" OR "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors
                  of the Company.

         2.8      "CASH-BASED AWARD" means an Award granted under Article 10
                  herein, the value of which is denominated in cash as
                  determined by the Committee and which is not any other form of
                  Award described in this Plan.

         2.9      "CAUSE" means (i) the willful failure by the Participant to
                  perform substantially the Participant's duties as an Employee
                  or Agent (other than due to physical or mental illness) after
                  reasonable notice to the Participant of such failure, (ii) the
                  Participant's engaging in serious misconduct that is injurious
                  to the Company or any Affiliate in any way, including, but not
                  limited to, by way of damage to their respective reputations
                  or standings in their respective industries, (iii) the
                  Participant's having been convicted of, or having entered a
                  plea of nolo contendere to, a crime that constitutes a felony
                  or (iv) the breach by the Participant of any written covenant
                  or agreement with the Company or any Affiliate not to disclose
                  or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any
                  property

                                       2

of, the Company or any Affiliate or not to compete or
                  interfere with the Company or any Affiliate.

         2.10     "CHANGE OF CONTROL" shall occur if any of the following events
                  occur:

                  (i)      Any Person acquires Beneficial Ownership, directly or
                           indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
                           twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined
                           Voting Power of the Company's securities;

                  (ii)     Within any twenty-four (24) month period, the
                           individuals who were Directors of the Company at the
                           beginning of such period (the "Incumbent Directors")
                           shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the
                           Board of Directors or the Board of Directors of any
                           successor to the Company; provided, however, that any
                           Director elected or nominated for election to the
                           Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then
                           still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent
                           Director for purposes of this Section 2.10(ii);

                  (iii)    The shareholders of the Company approve a merger,
                           consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or
                           other disposition of all or substantially all of the
                           assets of the Company which is consummated (a
                           "Corporate Event"), and immediately following the
                           consummation of which the shareholders of the Company
                           immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not
                           hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the
                           Voting Power of (i) in the case of a merger or
                           consolidation, the surviving or resulting
                           corporation, (ii) in the case of a share exchange,
                           the acquiring corporation, or (iii) in the case of a
                           division or a sale or other disposition of assets,
                           each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation
                           which, immediately following the relevant Corporate
                           Event, holds more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
                           the consolidated assets of the Company immediately
                           prior to such Corporate Event; or

                  (iv)     Any other event occurs which the Board declares to be
                           a Change of Control.

         2.11     "CHANGE OF CONTROL PRICE" means the highest price per share of
                  Shares offered in conjunction with any transaction resulting
                  in a Change of Control (as determined in good faith by the
                  Committee if any part of the offered price is payable other
                  than in cash) or, in the case of a Change of Control occurring
                  solely by reason of a change in the composition of the Board,
                  the highest Fair Market Value of the common stock on any of
                  the thirty (30) trading days immediately preceding the date on
                  which a Change of Control occurs.

         2.12     "CODE" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                  amended from time to time, or any successor thereto.

         2.13     "COMMITTEE" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of
                  Directors, or any other duly authorized committee of the Board
                  appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.

                                       3

2.14     "COMPANY" means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any
                  successor thereto as provided in Article 18 herein.

         2.15     "CONSTRUCTIVELY TERMINATED" means, unless otherwise specified
                  by the Committee in the Award Agreement, a voluntary
                  termination of employment by an Employee or of a relationship
                  as an Agent by an Agent within ten (10) business days after
                  any of the following actions by the Company, Affiliate, or
                  person acting on behalf of either:

                  (i)      Requiring the Employee or Agent to be based as
                           his/her regular or customary place of employment or
                           Agency at any office or location more than fifty (50)
                           miles from the location at which the Employee
                           performed his/her duties immediately prior to the
                           Change of Control, or in a state other than the one
                           in which the Employee or Agent performed his/her
                           duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, in
                           each case except for travel reasonably required in
                           the performance of the individual's responsibilities;

                  (ii)     In the case of an Employee, reducing the Employee's
                           base salary below the rate in effect at the time of a
                           Change of Control;

                  (iii)    In the case of an Employee, failing to pay the
                           Employee's base salary, other wages, or
                           employment-related benefits as required by law; or

                  (iv)     In the case of an Agent, failing to pay the Agent's
                           compensation or benefits as required by law.

         2.16     "DIRECTOR" means any individual who is a member of the Board
                  of Directors of the Company.

         2.17     "EMPLOYEE" means any employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
                  Directors who are not otherwise employed by the Company or an
                  Affiliate shall not be considered Employees under this Plan.
                  For greater clarity, and without limiting the generality of
                  the foregoing, individuals described in the first sentence of
                  this definition who are foreign nationals or are employed
                  outside of the United States, or both, are Employees and may
                  be granted Awards on the terms and conditions set forth in the
                  Plan, or on such other terms and conditions as may, in the
                  judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to
                  further the purposes of the Plan.

         2.18     "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                  amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.

         2.19     "FAIR MARKET VALUE" or "FMV" means a price that is based on
                  the opening, closing, actual, high, low, or average selling
                  prices of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") or
                  other established stock exchange (or exchanges) on the
                  applicable date, the preceding trading day, the next
                  succeeding trading day, or an average of trading days, as
                  determined by the Committee in its discretion. Such
                  definition(s) of FMV shall be specified in each Award
                  Agreement and may differ depending on whether FMV is in
                  reference to the grant, exercise, vesting, settlement, or
                  payout of an Award. If, however,

                                       4

the accounting standards used to account for equity awards
                  granted to Participants are substantially modified subsequent
                  to the Effective Date of the Plan, the Committee shall have
                  the ability to determine an Award's FMV based on the relevant
                  facts and circumstances. If Shares are not traded on an
                  established stock exchange, FMV shall be determined by the
                  Committee based on objective criteria.

         2.20     "FISCAL YEAR" means the year commencing on January 1 and
                  ending December 31 or other time period as approved by the
                  Board.

         2.21     "FREESTANDING SAR" means an SAR that is not a Tandem SAR, as
                  described in Article 7 herein.

         2.22     "GRANT PRICE" means the price against which the amount payable
                  is determined upon exercise of an SAR.

         2.23     "INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION" or "ISO" means an Option to purchase
                  Shares granted under Article 6 herein and that is designated
                  as an Incentive Stock Option and is intended to meet the
                  requirements of Section 422 of the Code, or any successor
                  provision.

         2.24     "INSIDER" shall mean an individual who is, on the relevant
                  date, subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of
                  the Exchange Act, as determined by the Board.

         2.25     "NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION" or "NQSO" means an Option to
                  purchase Shares, granted under Article 6 herein, which is not
                  intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or that otherwise
                  does not meet such requirements.

         2.26     "OPTION" means the conditional right to purchase Shares at a
                  stated Option Price for a specified period of time in the form
                  of an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option
                  subject to the terms of this Plan.

         2.27     "OPTION PRICE" means the price at which a Share may be
                  purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as
                  determined by the Committee.

         2.28     "PARTICIPANT" means an Employee or an Agent who has been
                  selected to receive an Award, or who has an outstanding Award
                  granted under the Plan.

         2.29     "PERFORMANCE-BASED COMPENSATION" means compensation under an
                  Award that is granted in order to provide remuneration solely
                  on account of the attainment of one or more Performance Goals
                  under circumstances that satisfy the requirements of Section
                  162(m) of the Code.

         2.30     "PERFORMANCE GOAL" means a performance criterion selected by
                  the Committee for a given Award for purposes of Article 11
                  based on one or more of the Performance Measures.

         2.31     "PERFORMANCE MEASURES" means measures as described in Article
                  11, the attainment of one or more of which shall, as
                  determined by the Committee, determine the vesting,

                                       5

payability, or value of an Award to an Insider that are
                  designated to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.

         2.32     "PERFORMANCE PERIOD" means the period of time during which the
                  assigned performance criteria must be met in order to
                  determine the degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to
                  an Award.

         2.33     "PERFORMANCE SHARE" means an Award granted under Article 9
                  herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in
                  Shares, the value of which at the time it is payable is
                  determined as a function of the extent to which corresponding
                  performance criteria have been achieved.

         2.34     "PERFORMANCE UNIT" means an Award granted under Article 9
                  herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, denominated in
                  units, the value of which at the time it is payable is
                  determined as a function of the extent to which corresponding
                  performance criteria have been achieved.

         2.35     "PERIOD OF RESTRICTION" means the period when an Award of
                  Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit is subject to
                  forfeiture based on the passage of time, the achievement of
                  performance criteria, and/or upon the occurrence of other
                  events as determined by the Committee, in its discretion.

         2.36     "PERSON" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
                  Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act and used in Sections 13(d)
                  and 14(d) thereof, including a "group" as defined in Section
                  13(d) thereof; provided, however, that "Person" shall not
                  include (i) the Company or any Affiliate, (ii) the MetLife
                  Policyholder Trust (or any person(s) who would otherwise be
                  described herein solely by reason of having the power to
                  control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (iii)
                  any employee benefit plan (including an employee stock
                  ownership plan) sponsored by the Company or any Affiliate.

         2.37     "RESTRICTED STOCK" means an Award of Shares subject to a
                  Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8 herein and
                  subject to the terms of this Plan.

         2.38     "RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT" means an Award denominated in units
                  subject to a Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8
                  herein and subject to the terms of this Plan.

         2.39     "SHARES" means the shares of common stock of the Company, $.01
                  par value per Share.

         2.40     "STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT" or "SAR" means the conditional
                  right to receive the difference between the FMV of a Share on
                  the date of exercise over the Grant Price, pursuant to the
                  terms of Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this
                  Plan.

         2.41     "STOCK-BASED AWARD" means an equity-based or equity-related
                  Award granted under Article 10 herein and subject to the terms
                  of this Plan, and not otherwise described by the terms of this
                  Plan.

                                       6

2.42     "TANDEM SAR" means an SAR that the Committee specifies is
                  granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to
                  Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, the
                  exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to
                  purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is
                  purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be
                  cancelled) or an SAR that is granted in tandem with an Option
                  but the exercise of such Option does not cancel the SAR, but
                  rather results in the exercise of the related SAR. Regardless
                  of whether an Option is granted coincident with an SAR, an SAR
                  is not a Tandem SAR unless so specified by the Committee at
                  time of grant.

         2.43     "VOTING POWER" shall mean such number of Voting Securities as
                  shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which
                  could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company.

         2.44     "VOTING SECURITIES" shall mean all securities entitling the
                  holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of
                  a company.

ARTICLE 3. ADMINISTRATION

         3.1 GENERAL. The Committee shall be responsible for administering the
Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, agents, and
other individuals, any of whom may be an Employee or Agent, and the Committee,
the Company, and its officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely upon the
advice, opinions, or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all
interpretations and determinations made by the Committee shall be final,
conclusive, and binding upon the Participants, the Company, and all other
interested parties.

         3.2 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE. The Committee shall have full and
exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan
and any Award Agreement or other agreement ancillary to or in connection with
the Plan, to determine eligibility for Awards, and to adopt such rules,
regulations, and guidelines for administering the Plan as the Committee may deem
necessary or proper. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to,
selecting Award recipients, establishing all Award terms and conditions and,
subject to Article 16, adopting modifications and amendments, or subplans to the
Plan or any Award Agreement, including, without limitation, any that are
necessary or appropriate to comply with the laws or compensation practices of
the countries and other jurisdictions in which the Company and Affiliates
operate.

         3.3 DELEGATION. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its
members or to one or more officers of the Company or its Affiliates, any of its
duties or powers as it may deem advisable; provided, however, that the Committee
may not delegate any of its non-administrative powers with respect to Awards
intended to be Performance-Based Compensation; and provided further, that the
member(s) or officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the
nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated
pursuant to this Section 3.3. Subject to the terms of the previous sentence, the
Committee may delegate to any individual(s) such administrative duties or powers
as it may deem advisable

ARTICLE 4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN AND MAXIMUM AWARDS

         4.1 NUMBER OF SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS. Subject to adjustment as
provided in Section 4.2 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for
issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be sixty-eight million
(68,000,000) plus any remaining Shares available for grant under the

                                       7

Predecessor Plan as set forth in Section 1.4 (such total number of Shares,
including such adjustment and remaining Shares, the "Total Share
Authorization"). Any Shares issued in connection with an Option or SAR shall be
counted against the limit as one (1) Share for every one (1) Share issued; for
Awards other than Options and SARs, any Shares issued shall be counted against
this limit as one and one-hundred seventy-nine thousandths (1.179) Shares for
every one (1) Share issued. The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be
granted in the form of Nonqualified Stock Options shall be equal to the Total
Authorization. The maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in the
form of Incentive Stock Options shall be sixty-eight million (68,000,000).

         For greater clarity, any Awards that are not settled in Shares shall
not reduce any of these reserves. Any Shares related to Awards (or after the
Effective Date, awards granted under the Predecessor Plan) which (i) terminate
by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of
such Shares, (ii) are settled in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise, or
(iii) are exchanged with the Committee's permission for Awards not involving
Shares, shall be available again for grant under the Plan. Moreover, if the
Option Price of any Option granted under the Plan or the tax withholding
requirements with respect to any Award granted under the Plan are satisfied by
tendering Shares to the Company (by either actual delivery or by attestation),
or if an SAR is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares
tendered, if any, will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the
maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. The maximum
number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan shall not be reduced to
reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into
additional Shares or credited as additional Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock
Units, Performance Shares, or Stock-Based Awards. The Shares available for
issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or treasury
Shares.

         Unless and until the Committee determines that an Award to an Insider
shall not be designed to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation, the
following limits ("Award Limits") shall apply to grants of Awards to Insiders
under the Plan:

                  (a)      OPTIONS AND SARS: The maximum aggregate number of
                           Shares that may be granted in the form of Options or
                           Stock Appreciation Rights, pursuant to any Award
                           granted in any one Fiscal Year to any one
                           Participant, shall be two million (2,000,000).

                  (b)      RESTRICTED STOCK/RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS: The maximum
                           aggregate grant with respect to Awards of Restricted
                           Stock/Restricted Stock Units granted in any one
                           Fiscal Year to any one Participant shall be one
                           million (1,000,000).

                  (c)      PERFORMANCE SHARES/PERFORMANCE UNITS: The maximum
                           aggregate Award of Performance Shares or Performance
                           Units that a Participant may receive in any one
                           Fiscal Year shall be one million (1,000,000) Shares,
                           or equal to the value of one million (1,000,000)
                           Shares determined as of the date of vesting or
                           payout, as applicable.

                  (d)      CASH-BASED AWARDS: The maximum aggregate amount
                           awarded or credited with respect to Cash-Based Awards
                           to any one Participant in any one Fiscal Year may

                                       8

not exceed ten million dollars ($10,000,000)
                           determined as of the date of vesting or payout, as
                           applicable.

                  (e)      STOCK AWARDS: The maximum aggregate grant with
                           respect to Awards of Stock-Based Awards in any one
                           Fiscal Year to any one Participant shall be one
                           million (1,000,000).

         4.2 ADJUSTMENTS IN AUTHORIZED SHARES. In the event of any corporate
event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of
the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger,
consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend,
extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or
other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of
securities, exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change in
capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to
shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement
of Participants' rights under the Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as
applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be issued under the Plan, the
number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, the Option Price or
Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the Award Limits, the limit on
issuing Awards other than Options granted with an Option Price equal to at least
the FMV of a Share on the date of grant or Stock Appreciation Rights with a
Grant Price equal to at least the FMV of a Share on the date of grant, and any
other value determinations applicable to outstanding Awards or to this Plan.

         The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also make appropriate
adjustments in the terms of any Awards under the Plan to reflect, or related to,
such changes or distributions and may modify any other terms of outstanding
Awards, including modifications of performance criteria and changes in the
length of Performance Periods. The determination of the Committee as to the
foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants
under the Plan.

         Subject to the provisions of Article 15 and any applicable law or
regulatory requirement, without affecting the number of Shares reserved or
available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance, assumption,
substitution, or conversion of Awards under this Plan in connection with any
such corporate event or transaction upon such terms and conditions as it may
deem appropriate. Additionally, the Committee may amend the Plan, or adopt
supplements to the Plan, in such manner as it deems appropriate to provide for
such issuance, assumption, substitution, or conversion as provided in the
previous sentence.

ARTICLE 5. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION

         5.1 ELIGIBILITY. Individuals eligible to participate in the Plan
include all Employees and Agents.

         5.2 ACTUAL PARTICIPATION. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the
Committee may from time to time, select from all eligible Employees and Agents,
those to whom Awards shall be granted and shall determine in its discretion, the
nature, terms, and amount of each Award.

                                       9

ARTICLE 6. STOCK OPTIONS

         6.1 GRANT OF OPTIONS. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and
at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee in its
discretion. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no ISOs may be granted more than ten
(10) years after the earlier of (a) adoption of the Plan by the Board, and (b)
the Effective Date.

         6.2 AWARD AGREEMENT. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award
Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the
number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an
Option shall become vested and exercisable, and any such other provisions as the
Committee shall determine. The Award Agreement also shall specify whether the
Option is intended to be an ISO or a NQSO.

         6.3 OPTION PRICE. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under
this Plan shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the
Award Agreement. The Option Price may include an Option Price based on one
hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, an Option
Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or
an Option Price that is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant,
with the index determined by the Committee in its discretion.

         6.4 DURATION OF OPTIONS. Each Option granted to a Participant shall
expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant;
provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th)
anniversary date of its grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Options
granted to Participants outside the United States, the Committee has the
authority to grant Options that have a term greater than ten (10) years.

         6.5 EXERCISE OF OPTIONS. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be
exercisable at such times and on the occurrence of such events, and be subject
to such restrictions and conditions, as the Committee shall in each instance
approve, which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant.

         6.6 PAYMENT. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be exercised by
the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent designated by
the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or by complying
with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the Committee,
setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is to be
exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.

         The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the
Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either
by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an
aggregate FMV at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price; (c) by a
combination of (a) and (b); or (d) any other method approved or accepted by the
Committee in its sole discretion subject to such rules and regulations as the
Committee may establish.

         Subject to Section 6.7 and any governing rules or regulations, as soon
as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise and full payment, the
Committee shall cause to be delivered to the Participant Share certificates or
evidence of book entry Shares in an appropriate amount based upon

                                       10

the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s). Unless otherwise determined
or accepted by the Committee, all payments in cash shall be paid in United
States dollars.

         6.7 RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE TRANSFERABILITY. The Committee may impose
such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option
granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without
limitation, requiring the Participant to hold the Shares acquired pursuant to
exercise for a specified period of time, or restrictions under applicable laws
or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares
are listed and/or traded.

         6.8 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR AGENCY. Each Participant's Award
Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the
right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's
employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates. Such provisions shall be
determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the
Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among
all Options issued pursuant to this Article 6, and may reflect distinctions
based on the reasons for termination.

         6.9 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS.

                  (a)      INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. No ISO granted under the
                           Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or
                           otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by
                           will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
                           Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under this
                           Article 6 shall be exercisable during his or her
                           lifetime only by such Participant.

                  (b)      NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS. Except as otherwise
                           provided in a Participant's Award Agreement at the
                           time of grant, or thereafter by the Committee, NQSO
                           granted under this Article 6 may not be sold,
                           transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise
                           alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by
                           the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except
                           as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award
                           Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
                           Committee, all NQSOs granted to a Participant under
                           this Article 6 shall be exercisable during the
                           Participant's lifetime only by such Participant.

         6.10 NOTIFICATION OF DISQUALIFYING DISPOSITION. The Participant will
notify the Company upon the disposition of Shares issued pursuant to the
exercise of an ISO or Shares received as a dividend on ISO stock. The Company
will use such information to determine whether a disqualifying disposition as
described in Section 421(b) of the Code has occurred.

         6.11 SUBSTITUTING SARS. Regardless of the terms of the Award Agreement,
the Committee, at any time when the Company is not subject accounting for
equity-based compensation granted to its Employees under APB Opinion 25 (or a
successor standard), shall have the right to substitute SARs for outstanding
Options granted to any Participant, provided that (i) the substituted SARs call
for settlement by the issuance of Shares or by the issuance of Shares or cash as
determined by the Committee in its discretion, and (ii) the terms of the
substituted SARs and economic benefit of such substituted SARs (including the
difference between the Grant Price and Fair Market Value of the Shares
associated with the SARs compared to the difference between the Option Price and
Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Options) are equivalent to the
terms and economic benefit

                                       11

of the Options being replaced, as determined by the Committee. The Committee
may, based on a determination that this Section 6.11 creates adverse accounting
consequences for the Company or otherwise, nullify this Section 6.11.

ARTICLE 7. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

         7.1 GRANT OF SARS. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan,
SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time and upon
such terms as shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion. The
Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these
forms of SARs.

         The SAR Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be
determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement. The
SAR Grant Price may include a Grant Price based on one hundred percent (100%) of
the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, a Grant Price that is set at a
premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or is indexed to the FMV
of the Shares on the date of grant, with the index determined by the Committee,
in its discretion. The Grant Price of Tandem SARs shall be equal to the Option
Price of the related Option.

         7.2 SAR AGREEMENT. Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award
Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and any such
other provisions as the Committee shall determine.

         7.3 TERM OF SAR. The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be
determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined
otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR
shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its grant.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for SARs granted to Participants outside the
United States, the Committee has the authority to grant SARs that have a term
greater than ten (10) years.

         7.4 EXERCISE OF FREESTANDING SARS. Freestanding SARs may be exercised
upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion,
imposes.

         7.5. EXERCISE OF TANDEM SARS. Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or
part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right
to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be
exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then
exercisable.

         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, with
respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO: (a) the Tandem SAR
will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (b) the value of
the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred
percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Price of the underlying ISO
and the FMV of the Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem
SAR is exercised; and (c) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the FMV of
the Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO.

         7.6 PAYMENT OF SAR AMOUNT. Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant
shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by
multiplying:

                                       12

(a)      The difference between the FMV of a Share on the date
                           of exercise over the Grant Price; by

                  (b)      The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is
                           exercised.

         At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may
be in cash, Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV on the date of exercise
of the SAR, as defined in the Award Agreement or otherwise defined by the
Committee thereafter), in some combination thereof, or in any other form
approved by the Committee at its sole discretion. The Committee's determination
regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth or reserved for later
determination in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.

         7.7 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR AGENCY. Each Award Agreement shall set
forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the
SAR following termination of the Participant's employment or Agency with the
Company or Affiliates. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole
discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered
into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to
the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.

         7.8 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF SARS. Except as otherwise provided in a
Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
Committee, an SAR granted under the Plan may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a
Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable
during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.

         7.9 OTHER RESTRICTIONS. Without limiting the generality of any other
provision of this Plan, the Committee may impose such other conditions and/or
restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of an SAR granted pursuant to
the Plan as it may deem advisable. This includes, but is not limited to,
requiring the Participant to hold the Shares received upon exercise of an SAR
for a specified period of time.

ARTICLE 8. RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS

         8.1 GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK OR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. Subject to the
terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to
time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to
Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall
determine.

         8.2 RESTRICTED STOCK OR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT. Each
Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an
Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of
Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and
any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.

         8.3 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan or the Award Agreement, the Shares of
Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted herein may not be sold,
transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the
end of the applicable Period of Restriction specified in the Award

                                       13

Agreement (and in the case of Restricted Stock Units until the date of delivery
or other payment), or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as
specified by the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Award
Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee. All rights with
respect to the Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to a
Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to
such Participant, except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement at the
time of grant or thereafter by the Committee.

         8.4 OTHER RESTRICTIONS. The Committee shall impose, in the Award
Agreement at the time of grant or anytime thereafter, such other conditions
and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable including, without
limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a stipulated purchase price for
each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted Stock Unit, restrictions based
upon the achievement of specific performance criteria, time-based restrictions
on vesting following the attainment of the performance criteria, time-based
restrictions, restrictions under applicable laws or under the requirements of
any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are listed or traded, or
holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the Shares by the Company
upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.

         To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee subject to Section
19.6, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted
Stock, or Shares delivered in consideration of Restricted Stock Units, in the
Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions
applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.

         Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted
Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by
the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares
have been satisfied or lapse, and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash,
Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole
discretion shall determine.

         8.5 CERTIFICATE LEGEND. In addition to any legends placed on
certificates pursuant to Section 8.4 herein, each certificate representing
Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may bear a legend such
as the following:

            The sale or other transfer of the Shares of stock represented by
            this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of
            law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in
            the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan, and in
            the associated Award Agreement. A copy of the Plan and such Award
            Agreement may be obtained from MetLife, Inc.

         8.6 VOTING RIGHTS. To the extent required by law, Participants holding
Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be granted the right to
exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of
Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any
Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.

         8.7 DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS. During the Period of
Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
Units granted hereunder may, if the Committee so determines, be credited with
dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares or

                                       14

dividend equivalents while they are so held in a manner determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion. The Committee may apply any restrictions to
the dividends or dividend equivalents that the Committee deems appropriate. The
Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine the form of payment of
dividends or dividend equivalents, including cash, Shares, Restricted Stock, or
Restricted Stock Units.

         8.8 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AND AGENCY. Each Award Agreement shall
set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain
Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the
Participant's employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates. Such
provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be
included in the Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be
uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units issued
pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for
termination.

         8.9 PAYMENT IN CONSIDERATION OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. When and if
Restricted Stock Units become payable, a Participant having received the grant
of such units shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in cash,
Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV, as defined in the Award Agreement
at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee), in some combination
thereof, or in any other form determined by the Committee at its sole
discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of payout shall be
set forth or reserved for later determination in the Award Agreement pertaining
to the grant of the Restricted Stock Unit.

ARTICLE 9. PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS

         9.1 GRANT OF PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS. Subject to the
terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to
time, may grant Performance Shares and/or Performance Units to Participants in
such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall determine.

         9.2 VALUE OF PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS. Each Performance
Share shall have an initial value equal to the FMV of a Share on the date of
grant. Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by
the Committee at the time of grant which may be less than, equal to, or greater
than the FMV of a Share. The Committee shall set performance criteria for a
Performance Period in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which
they are met, will determine, in the manner determined by the Committee and
documented in the Award Agreement the value and/or number of each Performance
Share or Performance Unit that will be paid to the Participant.

         9.3 EARNING OF PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS. Subject to the
terms of this Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the
holder of Performance Shares/Performance Units shall be entitled to receive
payout on the value and number of Performance Shares/Performance Units
determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding performance
criteria have been achieved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company has the
ability to require the Participant to hold the Shares received pursuant to such
Award for a specified period of time.

         9.4 FORM AND TIMING OF PAYMENT OF PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE
UNITS. Payment of earned Performance Shares/Performance Units shall be as
determined by the Committee

                                       15

and as evidenced in the Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Shares/Performance
Units in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination thereof) equal to
the value of the earned Performance Shares/Performance Units at the close of the
applicable Performance Period. Any Shares may be granted subject to any
restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the
Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth
in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award or reserved for
later determination.

         9.5 DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS. The Committee will decide if
Participants holding Performance Shares will receive dividend equivalents with
respect to dividends declared with respect to the Shares. Such dividends may be
subject to the accrual, forfeiture, or payout restrictions as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion.

         9.6 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR AGENCY. Each Award Agreement shall set
forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain
Performance Shares/Performance Units following termination of the Participant's
employment or Agency with the Company or an Affiliate. Such provisions shall be
determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the
Award Agreement entered into with each Participant, need not be uniform among
all Awards of Performance Shares/Performance Units issued pursuant to the Plan,
and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.

         9.7 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS.
Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement at the time of
grant or thereafter by the Committee, Performance Shares/Performance Units may
not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement or
otherwise by the Committee at any time, a Participant's rights under the Plan
shall inure during his or her lifetime only to such Participant.

ARTICLE 10. CASH-BASED AWARDS AND STOCK-BASED AWARDS

         10.1 GRANT OF CASH-BASED AWARDS. Subject to the terms and provisions of
this Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time and time, may grant
Cash-Based Awards to Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the
Committee may determine.

         10.2 VALUE OF CASH-BASED AWARDS. Each Cash-Based Award shall have a
value as may be determined by the Committee. For each Cash-Based Award, the
Committee may establish performance criteria in its discretion. If the Committee
exercises its discretion to establish such performance criteria, the number
and/or value of Cash-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will
be determined, in the manner determined by the Committee, the extent to which
the performance criteria are met.

         10.3 PAYMENT IN CONSIDERATION OF CASH-BASED AWARDS. Subject to the
terms of this Plan, the holder of a Cash-Based Award shall be entitled to
receive payout on the value of Cash-Based Award determined as a function of the
extent to which the corresponding performance criteria, if any, have been
achieved.

                                       16

10.4 FORM AND TIMING OF PAYMENT OF CASH-BASED AWARDS. Payment of earned
Cash-Based Awards shall be as determined by the Committee and evidenced in the
Award Agreement. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, may pay earned Cash-Based Awards in the form of cash or in Shares
(or in a combination thereof) that have an aggregate FMV equal to the value of
the earned Cash-Based Awards (the applicable date regarding which aggregate FMV
shall be determined by the Committee). Such Shares may be granted subject to any
restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee. The determination of the
Committee with respect to the form of payout of such Awards shall be set forth
in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the Award.

         10.5 STOCK-BASED AWARDS. The Committee may grant other types of
equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of
this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such
amounts and subject to such terms and conditions including, but not limited to
being subject to performance criteria, or in satisfaction of such obligations,
as the Committee shall determine. Such Awards may entail the transfer of actual
Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the
value of Shares and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply
with or take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than
the United States.

         10.6 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR AGENCY. Each Award Agreement shall
set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive
Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards following termination of the
Participant's employment or Agency with the Company or Affiliates. Such
provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be
included in the applicable Award Agreement, need not be uniform among all Awards
of Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may
reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.

         10.7 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CASH-BASED AWARDS AND STOCK-BASED AWARDS.
Except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement at the time of
grant or thereafter by the Committee, Cash-Based Awards and Stock-Based Awards
may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Further, except as otherwise provided in a Participant's Award Agreement at the
time of grant or thereafter by the Committee, a Participant's rights under the
Plan shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the
Participant.

ARTICLE 11. PERFORMANCE MEASURES

         Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, the vesting, payability,
or value (as determined by the Committee) of each Award other than an Option or
SAR that, at the time of grant, the Committee intends to be Performance-Based
Compensation to an Insider shall be determined by the attainment of one or more
Performance Goals as determined by the Committee in conformity with Code Section
162(m). The Committee shall specify in writing, by resolution or otherwise, the
Participants eligible to receive such an Award (which may be expressed in terms
of a class of individuals) and the Performance Goal(s) applicable to such Awards
within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period to which the
Performance Goal(s) relate(s) or such earlier time as required to comply with
Code Section 162(m). No such Award shall be payable unless the Committee
certifies in writing, by resolution or otherwise, that the Performance Goal(s)
applicable to the Award were satisfied. In no case may the Committee increase
the value of an Award of Performance-Based Compensation above

                                       17

the maximum value determined under the performance formula by the attainment of
the applicable Performance Goal(s), but the Committee may retain the discretion
to reduce the value below such maximum.

         Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and the
shareholders approve a change in the general Performance Measures set forth in
this Article 11, the Performance Goal(s) upon which the payment or vesting of an
Award to an Insider that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based
Compensation shall be limited to the following Performance Measures:

         (a)      Net earnings or net income (before or after taxes);

         (b)      Earnings per share;

         (c)      Net sales growth;

         (d)      Net operating profit;

         (e)      Operating earnings;

         (f)      Operating earnings per share;

         (g)      Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on
                  assets, capital, equity, or sales);

         (h)      Cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow,
                  free cash flow, and cash flow return on capital);

         (i)      Earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or
                  amortization and including/excluding capital gains and losses;

         (j)      Gross or operating margins;

         (k)      Productivity ratios;

         (l)      Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures
                  and total shareholder return);

         (m)      Expense targets;

         (n)      Margins;

         (o)      Operating efficiency;

         (p)      Customer satisfaction;

         (q)      Employee and/or Agent satisfaction;

         (r)      Working capital targets; and

         (s)      Economic Value Added;

         (t)      Revenue growth;

         (u)      Assets under management growth; and

         (v)      Rating Agencies' ratings.

         Any Performance Measure(s) may be used to measure the performance of
the Company as a whole or any business unit of the Company or any combination
thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or any of the above Performance
Measures as compared to the performance of a group of comparator companies, or
published or special index that the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems
appropriate. In the Award Agreement, the Committee also has the authority to
provide for accelerated vesting of any Award based on the achievement of
Performance Goal(s).

         The Committee may provide in any Award Agreement that any evaluation of
attainment of a Performance Goal may include or exclude any of the following
events that occurs during the relevant period: (a) asset write-downs; (b)
litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (c) the effect of changes in tax
laws, accounting principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported
results; (d) any reorganization and restructuring programs; (e) extraordinary
nonrecurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30
and/or in management's discussion and analysis of

                                       18

financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual
report to shareholders for the applicable year; (f) acquisitions or
divestitures; and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such
inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Insiders, they shall be prescribed in
a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.

         In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to
permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without
obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole
discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In
addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to
grant Awards to Insiders that shall not qualify as Performance-Based
Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the
requirements of Code Section 162(m).

ARTICLE 12. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION

         A Participant's "beneficiary" is the person or persons entitled to
receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under
the Plan in the event of the Participant's death. A Participant may designate a
beneficiary or change a previous beneficiary designation at such times
prescribed by the Committee by using forms and following procedures approved or
accepted by the Committee for that purpose. If no beneficiary designated by the
Participant is eligible to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights
that are available under the Plan at the Participant's death the beneficiary
shall be the Participant's estate.

         Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Committee may in its
discretion, after notifying the affected Participants, modify the foregoing
requirements, institute additional requirements for beneficiary designations, or
suspend the existing beneficiary designations of living Participants or the
process of determining beneficiaries under this Article 12, or both, in favor of
another method of determining beneficiaries.

ARTICLE 13. DEFERRALS AND SHARE SETTLEMENTS

         Notwithstanding any other provision under the Plan, the Committee may
permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of any
Award, or payment in consideration of any Award, under the terms of this Plan or
another Plan. To the extent such deferral is permitted by the Committee under
the terms of this Plan rather than another Plan, the Committee shall establish
rules and procedures for such deferrals as it sees fit.

ARTICLE 14. RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS

         14.1 EMPLOYMENT. Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall
interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to
terminate any Participant's employment, Agency or other service relationship at
any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the capacity
in which he or she is employed or otherwise serves the Company or an Affiliate.

         Neither an Award nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall
constitute part of an employment or Agency contract with the Company or an
Affiliate and, accordingly, subject to the terms of this Plan, this Plan may be
terminated or modified at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the
Committee without giving rise to liability on the part of the Company or an
Affiliate for severance payments or otherwise except as provided in this Plan.

                                       19

For purposes of the Plan, unless otherwise provided by the Committee,
transfer of employment or Agency of a Participant between the Company and an
Affiliate or among Affiliates, shall not be deemed a termination of employment
or Agency. The Committee may stipulate in a Participant's Award Agreement or
otherwise the conditions under which a transfer of employment or Agency to an
entity that is spun-off from the Company or an Affiliate or a vendor to the
Company or an Affiliate, if any, shall not be deemed a termination of employment
or Agency for purposes of an Award.

         14.2 PARTICIPATION. No Employee or Agent shall have the right to be
selected to receive an Award. No Employee or Agent, having been selected to
receive an Award, shall have the right to be selected to receive a future Award
or (if selected to receive such a future Award) the right to receive such a
future Award on terms and conditions identical or in proportion in any way to
any prior Award.

         14.3 RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER. A Participant shall have none of the
rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the
Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.

ARTICLE 15. CHANGE OF CONTROL

         15.1 ACCELERATED VESTING AND PAYMENT. Subject to the provisions of
Section 15.2 or as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, in the event of a
Change of Control, unless otherwise specifically prohibited under law or by the
rules and regulations of a national security exchange:

                  (a)      Any and all Options and SARs granted hereunder shall
                           become immediately exercisable; additionally, if a
                           Participant's employment or Agency is involuntarily
                           terminated for any reason except Cause within twelve
                           (12) months of such Change in Control, the
                           Participant shall have until the earlier of (i)
                           twelve (12) months following such termination date ,
                           or (ii) the term of the Option or SAR, to exercise
                           such Options or SARs;

                  (b)      Any Period of Restriction and other restrictions
                           imposed on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units
                           shall lapse, and Restricted Stock Units shall be
                           immediately payable;

                  (c)      The target payout opportunities attainable under all
                           outstanding Awards of performance-based Restricted
                           Stock, performance-based Restricted Stock Units,
                           Performance Units, and Performance Shares (including
                           but not limited to Awards intended to be
                           Performance-Based Compensation) shall be deemed to
                           have been fully earned based on targeted performance
                           being attained as of the effective date of the Change
                           of Control:

                           (i)      The vesting of all Awards denominated in
                                    Shares shall be accelerated as of the
                                    effective date of the Change of Control, and
                                    shall be paid out to Participants within
                                    thirty (30) days following the effective
                                    date of the Change of Control; and

                                       20

(ii)     Awards denominated in cash shall be paid to
                                    Participants in cash within thirty (30) days
                                    following the effective date of the Change
                                    of Control;

                  (d)      Upon a Change of Control, unless otherwise
                           specifically provided in a written agreement entered
                           into between the Participant and the Company or an
                           Affiliate, the Committee shall immediately vest and
                           pay out all Cash-Based Awards and Other Stock-Based
                           Awards as determined by the Committee; and

                  (e)      The Committee shall have the ability to unilaterally
                           determine that all outstanding Awards are cancelled
                           upon a Change in Control, and the value of such
                           Awards, as determined by the Committee in accordance
                           with the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement,
                           be paid out in cash in an amount based on the Change
                           of Control Price within a reasonable time subsequent
                           to the Change in Control; provided, however, that no
                           such payment shall be made on account of an ISO using
                           a value higher than the FMV on the date of
                           settlement.

         15.2 ALTERNATIVE AWARDS. Notwithstanding Section 15.1, no cancellation,
acceleration of vesting, lapsing of restrictions, payment of Award, cash
settlement or other payment shall occur with respect to any Award if the
Committee reasonably determines in good faith prior to the occurrence of a
Change of Control that such Award shall be honored or assumed, or new rights
substituted therefor (such honored, assumed or substituted Award hereinafter
called an "Alternative Award") by any successor as described in Article 18;
provided that any such Alternative Award must:

                  (a)      Be based on stock which is traded on an established
                           U.S. securities market, or that the Committee
                           reasonably believes will be so traded within sixty
                           (60) days after the Change of Control;

                  (b)      Provide such Participant with rights and entitlements
                           substantially equivalent to or better than the
                           rights, terms and conditions applicable under such
                           Award, including, but not limited to, an identical or
                           better exercise or vesting schedule and identical or
                           better timing and methods of payment;

                  (c)      Have substantially equivalent economic value to such
                           Award (determined at the time of the Change of
                           Control); and

                  (d)      Have terms and conditions which provide that in the
                           event that the Participant's employment or Agency is
                           involuntarily terminated or Constructively
                           Terminated, any conditions on a Participant's rights
                           under, or any restrictions on transfer or
                           exercisability applicable to, each such Alternative
                           Award shall be waived or shall lapse, as the case may
                           be.

ARTICLE 16. AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION, AND TERMINATION

         16.1 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION, AND TERMINATION. The
Committee or Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify,
suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided however, that:

                                       21

(a)      Without the prior approval of the Company's
                           shareholders, Options and SARs issued under the Plan
                           will not be repriced, replaced, or regranted through
                           cancellation or by lowering the exercise price of a
                           previously granted Option.

                  (b)      To the extent necessary under any applicable law,
                           regulation or exchange requirement, no amendment
                           shall be effective unless approved by the
                           shareholders of the Company in accordance with
                           applicable law, regulation, or exchange requirement.

         16.2 ADJUSTMENT OF AWARDS UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN UNUSUAL OR
NONRECURRING EVENTS. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and
conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or
nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in
Section 4.2 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the
Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles,
whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order
to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential
benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. The determination of the
Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and
binding on Participants under the Plan. To the extent such adjustment affects
Awards to Insiders intended to be Performance-Based Compensation, they shall be
prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for
deductibility.

         16.3 AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED. Notwithstanding any other provision of
the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification
of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously
granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding
such Award.

ARTICLE 17. WITHHOLDING

         The Company or any Affiliate shall have the power and the right to
deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company or any
Affiliate, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes,
domestic or foreign (including the Participant's FICA obligation), required by
law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising or as
a result of this Plan. The Committee may provide for Participants to satisfy
withholding requirements by having the Company withhold Shares or the
Participant making such other arrangements, in either case on such conditions as
the Committee specifies.

ARTICLE 18. SUCCESSORS

         Any obligations of the Company or an Affiliate under the Plan with
respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the
Company or Affiliate, respectively, whether the existence of such successor is
the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
Company or Affiliate, as applicable.

ARTICLE 19. GENERAL PROVISIONS

         19.1 FORFEITURE EVENTS. Without limiting in any way the generality of
the Committee's power to specify any terms and conditions of an Award consistent
with law, and for greater clarity, the Committee may specify in an Award
Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to
an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment
upon

                                       22

the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise
applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall
include, but shall not be limited to, failure to accept the terms of the Award
Agreement, termination of employment or Agency under certain or all
circumstances, violation of material Company and Affiliate policies, breach of
noncompetition, confidentiality, nonsolicitation, noninterference, corporate
property protection, or other agreement that may apply to the Participant, or
other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or
reputation of the Company and Affiliates.

         19.2 LEGEND. The certificates for Shares may include any legend that
the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such
Shares.

         19.3 DELIVERY OF TITLE. The Company shall have no obligation to issue
or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to:

                  (a)      Obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies
                           that the Company determines are necessary or
                           advisable; and

                  (b)      Completion of any registration or other qualification
                           of the Shares under any applicable national or
                           foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that
                           the Company determines to be necessary or advisable.

         19.4 INVESTMENT REPRESENTATIONS. The Committee may require each
Participant receiving Shares pursuant to an Award under this Plan to represent
and warrant in writing that the Participant is acquiring the Shares for
investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares.

         19.5 EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS BASED OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES. Without
limiting in any way the generality of the Committee's powers under this Plan,
including but not limited to the power to specify any terms and conditions of an
Award consistent with law, in order to comply with the laws in other countries
in which the Company or an Affiliate operates or has Employees or Agents, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority,
notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, to:

                  (a)      Determine which Affiliates shall be covered by the
                           Plan;

                  (b)      Determine which Employees and Agents outside the
                           United States are eligible to participate in the
                           Plan;

                  (c)      Modify the terms and conditions of any Award granted
                           to Employees or Agents outside the United States to
                           comply with applicable foreign laws;

                  (d)      Establish subplans and modify exercise procedures and
                           other terms and procedures, to the extent such
                           actions may be necessary or advisable. Any subplans
                           and modifications to Plan terms and procedures
                           established under this Section 19.5 by the Committee
                           shall be attached to this Plan document as
                           appendices; and

                                       23

(e)      Take any action, before or after an Award is made,
                           that it deems advisable to obtain approval or comply
                           with any necessary local government regulatory
                           exemptions or approvals.

         Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions
hereunder and no Awards shall be granted that would violate the Exchange Act,
the Code, any securities law, or governing statute or any other applicable law.

         19.6 UNCERTIFICATED SHARES. To the extent that the Plan provides for
issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such
Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis to the extent not prohibited
by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.

         19.7 UNFUNDED PLAN. Participants shall have no right, title, or
interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or an Affiliate
may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained
in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be
construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the
Company or an Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative,
or any other person. Awards shall be general, unsecured obligations of the
Company, except that if an Affiliate executes an Award Agreement instead of the
Company the Award shall be a general, unsecured obligation of the Affiliate and
not any obligation of the Company. To the extent that any individual acquires a
right to receive payments from the Company or an Affiliate, such right shall be
no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company or
Affiliate, as applicable. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid from
the general funds of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable, and no special or
separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to
assure payment of such amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The
Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA.

         19.8 NO FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional Shares shall be issued or
delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award Agreement. In such an instance,
unless the Committee determines otherwise, fractional Shares and any rights
thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.

         19.9 OTHER COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PLANS. Nothing in this Plan shall
be construed to limit the right of the Company or an Affiliate to establish
other compensation or benefit plans, programs, policies, or arrangements. Except
as may be otherwise specifically stated in any other benefit plan, policy,
program, or arrangement, no Award shall be treated as compensation for purposes
of calculating a Participant's rights under any such other plan, policy,
program, or arrangement.

         19.10 NO CONSTRAINT ON CORPORATE ACTION. Nothing in this Plan shall be
construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company's or an
Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications,
reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or
consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets, or (ii) to limit the right or power of the Company or an
Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or
appropriate.

                                       24

ARTICLE 20. LEGAL CONSTRUCTION

         20.1 GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the
context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the
plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.

         20.2 SEVERABILITY. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held
illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect
the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as
if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.

         20.3 REQUIREMENTS OF LAW. The granting of Awards and the issuance of
Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national
securities exchanges as may be required. The Company or an Affiliate shall
receive the consideration required by law for the issuance of Awards under the
Plan.

         The inability of the Company or an Affiliate to obtain authority from
any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the
Company's or the Affiliate's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and
sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company or Affiliate of any
liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which
such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.

         20.4 GOVERNING LAW. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed
by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law
rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of
the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.

                                       25

</EX-10.12>

<EX-10.13>
 9
 y81517exv10w13.txt
 EX-10.13

EXHIBIT 10.13

METLIFE, INC. 2005 NON-MANAGEMENT
DIRECTOR STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN

Effective April 15, 2005

EXHIBIT 10.13

METLIFE, INC. 2005 NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN

ARTICLE 1. ESTABLISHMENT, PURPOSE, AND DURATION

         1.1 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PLAN. MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), establishes an incentive
compensation plan to be known as the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director
Stock Compensation Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan"), as set forth in
this document.

         The Plan permits the grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights,
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, and Stock-Based Awards.

         1.2 PURPOSE OF THE PLAN. The purpose of the Plan is to promote the
long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders by strengthening the
Company's ability to attract, motivate, and retain well qualified individuals as
Non-Management Directors of the Company upon whose judgment, initiative, and
efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Company largely
depend, and to provide an additional incentive for such individuals through
stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial
success and growth of the Company and create value for shareholders.

         1.3 DURATION OF THE PLAN. The Plan shall commence as of the Effective
Date and shall remain in effect until the earlier of (i) the tenth anniversary
of the Effective Date, or (ii) all Shares subject to the Plan have been
purchased or acquired according to the Plan's provisions, in each case subject
to the right of the Committee or the Board to amend or terminate the Plan at any
time pursuant to Article 13 herein.

ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS

         Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning
set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the
word shall be capitalized.

         2.1      "AFFILIATE" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
                  Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the
                  Exchange Act, with reference to the Company, and shall also
                  include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited
                  liability company, or other entity in which the Company owns,
                  directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the
                  total combined Voting Power of such corporation or of the
                  capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or
                  other entity.

         2.2      "AWARD" means, individually or collectively, a grant of
                  Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or
                  Stock-Based Awards, in each case under and subject to the
                  terms of this Plan.

         2.3      "AWARD AGREEMENT" means either (i) a written agreement entered
                  into by the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms
                  and provisions applicable to Awards granted under this Plan;
                  or (ii) a written statement issued by the Company to a
                  Participant describing the terms and provisions of such Award.

2.4      "BENEFICIAL OWNER" OR "BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP" shall have the
                  meaning ascribed to such term in rule 13d-3 of the General
                  Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act.

         2.5      "BOARD" OR "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors
                  of the Company.

         2.6      "CODE" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                  amended from time to time, or any successor thereto.

         2.7      "COMMITTEE" means the Governance Committee of the Board of
                  Directors, or any other duly authorized committee of the Board
                  appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.

         2.8      "COMPANY" means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any
                  successor thereto as provided in Article 14 herein.

         2.9      "DIRECTOR" means any individual who is a member of the Board
                  of Directors of the Company.

         2.10     "EFFECTIVE DATE" means April 15, 2005.

         2.11     "EMPLOYEE" means any employee of the Company or an Affiliate.

         2.12     "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                  amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.

         2.13     "FAIR MARKET VALUE" or "FMV" means a price that is based on
                  the opening, closing, actual, high, low, or average selling
                  prices of a Share on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") or
                  other established stock exchange (or exchanges) on the
                  applicable date, the preceding trading day, the next
                  succeeding trading day, or an average of trading days, as
                  determined by the Committee in its discretion. Such
                  definition(s) of FMV shall be specified in each Award
                  Agreement and may differ depending on whether FMV is in
                  reference to the grant, exercise, vesting, settlement, or
                  payout of an Award. If, however, the accounting standards used
                  to account for equity awards granted to Participants are
                  substantially modified subsequent to the Effective Date of the
                  Plan, the Committee shall have the ability to determine an
                  Award's FMV based on the relevant facts and circumstances. If
                  Shares are not traded on an established stock exchange, FMV
                  shall be determined by the Committee based on objective
                  criteria.

         2.14     "FREESTANDING SAR" means an SAR that is not a Tandem SAR, as
                  described in Article 7 herein.

         2.15     "GRANT PRICE" means the price against which the amount payable
                  is determined upon exercise of an SAR.

         2.16     "NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR" means a Director who is not an
                  Employee.

         2.17     "OPTION" means the conditional right to purchase Shares at a
                  stated Option Price for a specified period of time, subject to
                  the terms of this Plan. Each Option shall be a

                                       2

Nonqualified Stock Option, in that no Option shall be an
                  Incentive Stock Option intended to meet the requirements of
                  Section 422 of the Code.

         2.18     "OPTION PRICE" means the price at which a Share may be
                  purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as
                  determined by the Committee.

         2.19     "PARTICIPANT" means an Non-Management Director who has
                  received an Award, or who has an outstanding Award granted
                  under the Plan.

         2.20     "PERIOD OF RESTRICTION" means the period when an Award of
                  Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit is subject to
                  forfeiture based on the passage of time, the achievement of
                  performance goals, and/or upon the occurrence of other events
                  as determined by the Committee, in its discretion.

         2.21     "RESTRICTED STOCK" means an Award of Shares subject to a
                  Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8 herein and
                  subject to the terms of this Plan.

         2.22     "RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT" means an Award denominated in units
                  subject to a Period of Restriction, granted under Article 8
                  herein and subject to the terms of this Plan.

         2.23     "SHARES" means the shares of common stock of the Company, $.01
                  par value per Share.

         2.24     "STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT" or "SAR" means the conditional
                  right to receive the difference between the FMV of a Share on
                  the date of exercise over the Grant Price, pursuant to the
                  terms of Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this
                  Plan.

         2.25     "STOCK-BASED AWARD" means an equity-based or equity-related
                  Award granted under Article 9 herein and subject to the terms
                  of this Plan, and not otherwise described by the terms of this
                  Plan.

         2.26     "TANDEM SAR" means an SAR that the Committee specifies is
                  granted in connection with a related Option pursuant to
                  Article 7 herein and subject to the terms of this Plan, the
                  exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to
                  purchase a Share under the related Option (and when a Share is
                  purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall similarly be
                  cancelled) or an SAR that is granted in tandem with an Option
                  but the exercise of such Option does not cancel the SAR, but
                  rather results in the exercise of the related SAR. Regardless
                  of whether an Option is granted coincident with an SAR, an SAR
                  is not a Tandem SAR unless so specified by the Committee at
                  time of grant.

         2.27     "VOTING POWER" shall mean such number of Voting Securities as
                  shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes which
                  could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company.

         2.28     "VOTING SECURITIES" shall mean all securities entitling the
                  holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of
                  a company.

                                       3

ARTICLE 3. ADMINISTRATION

         3.1 GENERAL. The Committee shall be responsible for administering the
Plan. All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the
Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Participants, the
Company, and all other interested parties.

         3.2 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE. The Committee shall have full and
exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan
and any Award Agreement or other agreement ancillary to or in connection with
the Plan, and to adopt such rules, regulations, and guidelines for administering
the Plan as the Committee may deem necessary or proper. Such authority shall
include, but not be limited to, establishing all Award terms and conditions and,
subject to Article 13 and Section 6.3, adopting modifications and amendments to
the Plan or any Award Agreement.

         3.3 DELEGATION. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its
members or to one or more officers of the Company or its Affiliates, or to any
other individual(s) such administrative duties or powers as it may deem
advisable, and the Committee or any individual to whom it has delegated duties
or powers as aforesaid may employ one or more individuals to render advice with
respect to any responsibility the Committee or such individual may have under
the Plan.

ARTICLE 4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN AND MAXIMUM AWARDS

         4.1 NUMBER OF SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS. Subject to adjustment as
provided in Section 4.2 herein, the number of Shares hereby reserved for
issuance to Participants under the Plan shall be two million (2,000,000). The
maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be granted in any one calendar year
to any one Participant under the Plan shall be twenty-five thousand (25,000).

Any Shares related to Awards which (i) terminate by expiration, forfeiture,
cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, (ii) are settled
in cash either in lieu of Shares or otherwise, or (iii) are exchanged with the
Committee's permission for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again
for grant under the Plan. Moreover, if the Option Price of any Option granted
under the Plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any Award
granted under the Plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to the Company (by
either actual delivery or by attestation), or if an SAR is exercised, only the
number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, will be deemed
delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for
issuance under the Plan. The maximum number of Shares available for issuance
under the Plan shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend
equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited as additional
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Stock-Based Awards. The Shares
available for issuance under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares or
treasury Shares.

         4.2 ADJUSTMENTS IN AUTHORIZED SHARES. In the event of any corporate
event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the Shares of
the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger,
consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend,
extraordinary dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or
other distribution of stock or property of the Company, combination of
securities, exchange of securities, dividend in kind, or other like change in
capital structure or distribution (other than normal cash dividends) to
shareholders of the Company, or any similar corporate event or transaction, the
Committee, in its sole discretion, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement
of Participants' rights under the Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as
applicable, the number and kind of Shares that may be

                                       4

issued under the Plan, the number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding
Awards, the Option Price or Grant Price applicable to outstanding Awards, the
annual Participant Share Award limit, and any other value determinations
applicable to outstanding Awards or to this Plan.

         The Committee, in its sole discretion, may also make appropriate
adjustments in the terms of any Awards under the Plan to reflect, or related to,
such changes or distributions and may modify any other terms of outstanding
Awards. The determination of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if
any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants under the Plan.

         Subject to the provisions of Article 13, Section 6.3, and any
applicable law or regulatory requirement, without affecting the number of Shares
reserved or available hereunder, the Committee may authorize the issuance,
assumption, substitution, or conversion of Awards under this Plan in connection
with any such corporate event or transaction upon such terms and conditions as
it may deem appropriate.

ARTICLE 5. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION

         5.1 ELIGIBILITY. Individuals eligible to participate in the Plan
include all Non-Management Directors.

         5.2 PARTICIPATION. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee
from time to time may make Awards and determine in its discretion, the nature,
terms, and amount of each Award.

ARTICLE 6. STOCK OPTIONS

         6.1 GRANT OF OPTIONS. Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan,
Options may be granted to Participants in such number, and upon such terms, and
at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee in its
discretion.

         6.2 AWARD AGREEMENT. Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Award
Agreement that shall specify the Option Price, the duration of the Option, the
number of Shares to which the Option pertains, the conditions upon which an
Option shall become vested and exercisable, and any such other provisions as the
Committee shall determine.

         6.3 OPTION PRICE. The Option Price for each grant of an Option under
this Plan shall be determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the
Award Agreement. The Option Price may include an Option Price based on one
hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, an Option
Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or
an Option Price that is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant,
with the index determined by the Committee in its discretion. Without the prior
approval of the Company's shareholders, Options issued under the Plan will not
be repriced, replaced, or regranted through cancellation, or by lowering the
exercise price of a previously granted Option.

         6.4 DURATION OF OPTIONS. Each Option granted to a Participant shall
expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant;
provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th)
anniversary date of its grant.

         6.5 EXERCISE OF OPTIONS. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be
exercisable at such times and on the occurrence of such events, and be subject
to such restrictions and conditions, as the

                                       5

Committee shall in each instance approve, which need not be the same for each
grant or for each Participant.

         6.6 RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE TRANSFERABILITY. The Committee may impose
such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option
granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without
limitation, requiring the Participant to hold the Shares acquired pursuant to
exercise for a specified period of time, or restrictions under applicable laws
or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares
are listed and/or traded.

         6.7 TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Each Participant's Award Agreement
shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to
exercise the Option following termination of the Participant's service as a
Director. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the
Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with each
Participant, need not be uniform among all Options issued pursuant to this
Article 6, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.

         6.8 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS. Except as otherwise provided in a
Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant, or thereafter by the
Committee, Options granted under this Article 6 may not be sold, transferred,
pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or
by the laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided
in a Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
Committee, all Options granted to a Participant under this Article 6 shall be
exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by such Participant.

         6.9 SUBSTITUTING SARS. Regardless of the terms of the Award Agreement,
the Committee, at any time when the Company is subject to fair value accounting
for equity-based compensation, shall have the right to substitute SARs for
outstanding Options granted to any Participant, provided the substituted SARs
call for settlement by the issuance of Shares, and the terms of the substituted
SARs and economic benefit of such substituted SARs are equivalent to the terms
and economic benefit of the Options being replaced, as determined by the
Committee.

         6.10 PAYMENT FOR OPTIONS. Options granted under this Article 6 shall be
exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the Company or an agent
designated by the Company in a form specified or accepted by the Committee, or
by complying with any alternative procedures which may be authorized by the
Committee, setting forth the number of Shares with respect to which the Option
is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for the Shares.

         The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be payable to the
Company in full either: (a) in cash or its equivalent; (b) by tendering (either
by actual delivery or attestation) previously acquired Shares having an
aggregate FMV at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price; (c) by a
combination of (a) and (b); or (d) any other method approved or accepted by the
Committee in its sole discretion subject to such rules and regulations as the
Committee may establish.

         Subject to Section 6.7 and any governing rules or regulations, as soon
as practicable after receipt of a notification of exercise and full payment, the
Committee shall cause to be delivered to the Participant Share certificates or
evidence of book entry Shares in an appropriate amount based upon

                                       6

the number of Shares purchased under the Option(s). Unless otherwise determined
or accepted by the Committee, all payments in cash shall be paid in United
States dollars.

ARTICLE 7. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

         7.1 GRANT OF SARS. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan,
SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time and upon
such terms as shall be determined by the Committee in its discretion. The
Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these
forms of SARs.

         The SAR Grant Price for each grant of a Freestanding SAR shall be
determined by the Committee and shall be specified in the Award Agreement. The
SAR Grant Price may include (but not be limited to) a Grant Price based on one
hundred percent (100%) of the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, a Grant
Price that is set at a premium to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, or
is indexed to the FMV of the Shares on the date of grant, with the index
determined by the Committee, in its discretion. The Grant Price of Tandem SARs
shall be equal to the Option Price of the related Option.

         7.2 SAR AGREEMENT. Each SAR Award shall be evidenced by an Award
Agreement that shall specify the Grant Price, the term of the SAR, and any such
other provisions as the Committee shall determine.

         7.3 TERM OF SAR. The term of an SAR granted under the Plan shall be
determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and except as determined
otherwise by the Committee and specified in the SAR Award Agreement, no SAR
shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10th) anniversary date of its grant.

         7.4 EXERCISE OF FREESTANDING SARS. Freestanding SARs may be exercised
upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion,
imposes.

         7.5. EXERCISE OF TANDEM SARS. Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or
part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right
to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option. A Tandem SAR may be
exercised only with respect to the Shares for which its related Option is then
exercisable.

         7.6 PAYMENT OF SAR AMOUNT. Upon the exercise of an SAR, a Participant
shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by
multiplying:

                  (a)      The difference between the FMV of a Share on the date
                           of exercise over the Grant Price; by

                  (b)      The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is
                           exercised.

         At the discretion of the Committee, the payment upon SAR exercise may
be in cash, Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV on the date of exercise
of the SAR, as defined in the Award Agreement or otherwise defined by the
Committee thereafter), in some combination thereof, or in any other form
approved by the Committee at its sole discretion. The Committee's determination

                                       7

regarding the form of SAR payout shall be set forth or reserved for later
determination in the Award Agreement pertaining to the grant of the SAR.

         7.7 TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Each Award Agreement shall set forth
the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR
following termination of the Participant's service as a Director. Such
provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be
included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be
uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions
based on the reasons for termination.

         7.8 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF SARS. Except as otherwise provided in a
Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
Committee, an SAR granted under the Plan may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a
Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable
during his or her lifetime only by such Participant.

         7.9 OTHER RESTRICTIONS. Without limiting the generality of any other
provision of this Plan, the Committee may impose such other conditions and/or
restrictions on any Shares received upon exercise of an SAR granted pursuant to
the Plan as it may deem advisable. This includes, but is not limited to,
requiring the Participant to hold the Shares received upon exercise of an SAR
for a specified period of time.

ARTICLE 8. RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS

         8.1 GRANT OF RESTRICTED STOCK OR RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. Subject to the
terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time to
time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units to
Participants in such amounts and upon such terms as the Committee shall
determine.

         8.2 RESTRICTED STOCK OR RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT. Each
Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Unit grant shall be evidenced by an
Award Agreement that shall specify the Period(s) of Restriction, the number of
Shares of Restricted Stock or the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and
any such other provisions as the Committee shall determine.

         8.3 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
Except as otherwise provided in this Plan or the Award Agreement, the Shares of
Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted herein may not be sold,
transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the
end of the applicable Period of Restriction specified in the Award Agreement
(and in the case of Restricted Stock Units until the date of delivery or other
payment), or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by
the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Award Agreement at the
time of grant or thereafter by the Committee. All rights with respect to the
Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under
the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant,
except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreement at the time of grant or
thereafter by the Committee.

         8.4 OTHER RESTRICTIONS. The Committee shall impose, in the Award
Agreement at the time of grant or anytime thereafter, such other conditions
and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted

                                       8

Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Plan as it may deem
advisable including, without limitation, a requirement that Participants pay a
stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock or each Restricted
Stock Unit, time-based restrictions on vesting following the attainment of the
performance goals, time-based restrictions, restrictions under applicable laws
or under the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares
are listed or traded, or holding requirements or sale restrictions placed on the
Shares by the Company upon vesting of such Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
Units.

         To the extent deemed appropriate by the Committee subject to Section
15.4, the Company may retain the certificates representing Shares of Restricted
Stock, or Shares delivered in consideration of Restricted Stock Units, in the
Company's possession until such time as all conditions and/or restrictions
applicable to such Shares have been satisfied or lapse.

         Except as otherwise provided in this Article 8, Shares of Restricted
Stock covered by each Restricted Stock Award shall become freely transferable by
the Participant after all conditions and restrictions applicable to such Shares
have been satisfied or lapse, and Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash,
Shares, or a combination of cash and Shares as the Committee, in its sole
discretion shall determine.

         8.5 CERTIFICATE LEGEND. In addition to any legends placed on
certificates pursuant to Section 8.4 herein, each certificate representing
Shares of Restricted Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may bear a legend such
as the following:

            The sale or other transfer of the Shares of stock represented by
            this certificate, whether voluntary, involuntary, or by operation of
            law, is subject to certain restrictions on transfer as set forth in
            the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Non-Management Director Stock Compensation
            Plan, and in the associated Award Agreement. A copy of the Plan and
            such Award Agreement may be obtained from MetLife, Inc.

         8.6 VOTING RIGHTS. To the extent required by law, Participants holding
Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be granted the right to
exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares during the Period of
Restriction. A Participant shall have no voting rights with respect to any
Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.

         8.7 DIVIDENDS AND OTHER DISTRIBUTIONS. During the Period of
Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock
Units granted hereunder may, if the Committee so determines, be credited with
dividends paid with respect to the underlying Shares or dividend equivalents
while they are so held in a manner determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion. The Committee may apply any restrictions to the dividends or
dividend equivalents that the Committee deems appropriate. The Committee, in its
sole discretion, may determine the form of payment of dividends or dividend
equivalents, including cash, Shares, Restricted Stock, or Restricted Stock
Units.

         8.8 TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Each Award Agreement shall set forth
the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted
Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's
service as a Director. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole
discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered
into with

                                       9

each Participant, need not be uniform among all Shares of Restricted Stock or
Restricted Stock Units issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions
based on the reasons for termination.

         8.9 PAYMENT IN CONSIDERATION OF RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. When and if
Restricted Stock Units become payable, a Participant having received the grant
of such units shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in cash,
Shares of equivalent value (based on the FMV, as defined in the Award Agreement
at the time of grant or thereafter by the Committee), in some combination
thereof, or in any other form determined by the Committee at its sole
discretion. The Committee's determination regarding the form of payout shall be
set forth or reserved for later determination in the Award Agreement pertaining
to the grant of the Restricted Stock Unit.

ARTICLE 9. STOCK-BASED AWARDS

         9.1 STOCK-BASED AWARDS. The Committee may grant other types of
equity-based or equity-related Awards not otherwise described by the terms of
this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such
amounts and subject to such terms and conditions, or in satisfaction of any
obligation of the Company or an Affiliate to a Non-Management Director, as the
Committee shall determine. Such Awards may entail the transfer of actual Shares
to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value
of Shares and may include, without limitation, Awards designed to comply with or
take advantage of the applicable local laws of jurisdictions other than the
United States.

         9.2 TERMINATION OF DIRECTORSHIP. Each Award Agreement shall set forth
the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Stock-Based
Awards following termination of the Participant's service as a Director. Such
provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be
included in the applicable Award Agreement, need not be uniform among all Awards
of Stock-Based Awards issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions
based on the reasons for termination.

         9.3 NONTRANSFERABILITY OF STOCK-BASED AWARDS. Except as otherwise
provided in a Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter
by the Committee, Stock-Based Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged,
assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the
laws of descent and distribution. Further, except as otherwise provided in a
Participant's Award Agreement at the time of grant or thereafter by the
Committee, a Participant's rights under the Plan shall be exercisable during the
Participant's lifetime only by the Participant.

ARTICLE 10. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION

         A Participant's "beneficiary" is the person or persons entitled to
receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are available under
the Plan in the event of the Participant's death. A Participant may designate a
beneficiary or change a previous beneficiary designation at such times
prescribed by the Committee by using forms and following procedures approved or
accepted by the Committee for that purpose. If no beneficiary designated by the
Participant is eligible to receive payments or other benefits or exercise rights
that are available under the Plan at the Participant's death the beneficiary
shall be the Participant's estate.

         Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Committee may in its
discretion, after notifying the affected Participants, modify the foregoing
requirements, institute additional requirements for

                                       10

beneficiary designations, or suspend the existing beneficiary designations of
living Participants or the process of determining beneficiaries under this
Article 10, or both, in favor of another method of determining beneficiaries.

ARTICLE 11. DEFERRALS AND SHARE SETTLEMENTS

         Notwithstanding any other provision under the Plan, the Committee may
permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's receipt of any
Award, or payment in consideration of any Award, under the terms of this Plan or
another Plan. To the extent such deferral is permitted by the Committee under
the terms of this Plan rather than another Plan, the Committee shall establish
rules and procedures for such deferrals as it sees fit.

ARTICLE 12. RIGHTS OF NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTORS

         12.1 DIRECTORSHIP. Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall be
construed to confer a right to be elected or to continue to serve as a Director.
No Participant shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the
grant of an Award shall not be construed to create any obligation on the part of
the Board to nominate any of its members for re-election by the Company's
shareholders. Nothing in the Plan or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or
limit in any way the right of the Board to otherwise remove the Participant from
the Board at any time, nor confer upon any Participant a right to remain a
member of the Board for any period of time, or at any particular rate of
compensation.

         12.2 PARTICIPATION. No Non-Management Director, having received an
Award, shall have the right to receive a future Award or (if receiving such a
future Award) the right to receive such a future Award on terms and conditions
identical or in proportion in any way to any prior Award.

         12.3 RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER. A Participant shall have none of the
rights of a shareholder with respect to Shares covered by any Award until the
Participant becomes the record holder of such Shares.

ARTICLE 13. AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION, AND TERMINATION

         13.1 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION, AND TERMINATION. The
Committee or Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify,
suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole or in part; provided however, that to
the extent necessary under any applicable law, regulation or exchange
requirement, no amendment shall be effective unless approved by the shareholders
of the Company in accordance with applicable law, regulation, or exchange
requirement.

         13.2 ADJUSTMENT OF AWARDS UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN UNUSUAL OR
NONRECURRING EVENTS. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and
conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or
nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in
Section 4.2 hereof) affecting the Company or the financial statements of the
Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles,
whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order
to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential
benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. The determination of the
Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and
binding on Participants under the Plan.

                                       11

13.3 AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED. Notwithstanding any other provision of
the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment, suspension, or modification
of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously
granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding
such Award.

ARTICLE 14. SUCCESSORS

         Any obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards
granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company,
respectively, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct
or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, as applicable.

ARTICLE 15. GENERAL PROVISIONS

         15.1 FORFEITURE EVENTS. Without limiting in any way the generality of
the Committee's power to specify any terms and conditions of an Award consistent
with law, and for greater clarity, the Committee may specify in an Award
Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to
an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment
upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise
applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award.

         15.2 LEGEND. The certificates for Shares may include any legend that
the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer of such
Shares.

         15.3 DELIVERY OF TITLE. The Company shall have no obligation to issue
or deliver evidence of title for Shares issued under the Plan prior to:

                  (a)      Obtaining any approvals from governmental agencies
                           that the Company determines are necessary or
                           advisable; and

                  (b)      Completion of any registration or other qualification
                           of the Shares under any applicable national or
                           foreign law or ruling of any governmental body that
                           the Company determines to be necessary or advisable.

         15.4 UNCERTIFICATED SHARES. To the extent that the Plan provides for
issuance of certificates to reflect the transfer of Shares, the transfer of such
Shares may be effected on a noncertificated basis to the extent not prohibited
by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.

         15.5 UNFUNDED PLAN. Participants shall have no right, title, or
interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or an Affiliate
may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained
in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be
construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the
Company or an Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative,
or any other person. Awards shall be general, unsecured obligations of the
Company. To the extent that any individual acquires a right to receive payments
from the Company, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured
general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid
from the general funds of the Company, and no special or separate fund shall be
established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such
amounts except as expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not intended to
be subject to ERISA.

                                       12

15.6 NO FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional Shares shall be issued or
delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award Agreement but shall, instead, be
payable in cash.

         15.7 NO CONSTRAINT ON CORPORATE ACTION. Nothing in this Plan shall be
construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company's or an
Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications,
reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or
consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets, or (ii) to limit the right or power of the Company or an
Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or
appropriate.

ARTICLE 16. LEGAL CONSTRUCTION

         16.1 GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the
context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the
plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.

         16.2 SEVERABILITY. In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held
illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect
the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as
if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.

         16.3 REQUIREMENTS OF LAW. The granting of Awards and the issuance of
Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and
regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national
securities exchanges as may be required. The Company shall receive the
consideration required by law for the issuance of Awards under the Plan.

         The inability of the Company or an Affiliate to obtain authority from
any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the
Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares
hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure
to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have
been obtained.

         16.4 GOVERNING LAW. The Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed
by the laws of the State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law
rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of
the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.

                                       13

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 10
 y81517exv10w14.txt
 EX-10.14

EXHIBIT 10.14

                        MANAGEMENT STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

      MetLife, Inc. confirms that, on [GRANT DATE] (the "Grant Date"), it
granted you, [NAME], [NUMBER] Stock Options (your "Options"). Each Option
entitles you to purchase one Share for $[CLOSING PRICE ON DATE OF GRANT] per
Share (the "Exercise Price"). Your Options are subject to the terms and
conditions of this Management Stock Option Agreement (this "Agreement") and the
MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").

      1. STANDARD TERMS OF YOUR OPTIONS. Except as provided in Sections 3
(Change of Status) and 4 (Change of Control), one-third (1/3) of your Options
will become exercisable on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of
the Grant Date, and you may exercise your Options until the close of business on
[DAY PRIOR TO THE TENTH (10TH) ANNIVERSARY OF THE GRANT DATE] (the "Standard
Terms"). Neither this date, nor any other deadline for exercise of your Options
under this Agreement, will be extended regardless of whether you are unable to
exercise your Options on that date because it is not a business day, due to
trading limitations, or otherwise.

      2. EXERCISE OF YOUR OPTIONS.

      (a) You may exercise any of your Options that have become exercisable by
notifying the Company, using procedures that will be established for this
purpose, and paying for the Shares at the time you exercise your Options. Any
exercisable Options that you fail to exercise within the applicable period for
exercise will be forfeited.

      (b) You may pay the Exercise Price in one or more of the following ways:
(1) in cash, (2) by exchanging Shares you already own (as long as those Shares
are not subject to any pledge or other security interest) at the Closing Price
on the date of exchange, (3) to the extent permitted by law, through an
arrangement with the broker designated by the Company in which the broker will
use the proceeds of the sale of a sufficient number of Shares to pay the
Exercise Price, or (4) through a combination of the above. The combined value
paid must have a value as of the date tendered that is at least equal to the
Exercise Price.

      (c) You must exercise your Options in accordance with the Company's
insider trading policy and any applicable pre-trading clearance procedures. Your
exercise of Options or sale of Shares may be prohibited at certain times, or
delayed, due to Share trading volume limitations imposed by the Company. The
issuance of Shares pursuant to your Options is subject to all applicable laws,
rules and regulations, and to any approvals by any governmental agencies or
national securities exchanges as may be required. No Shares will be issued upon
exercise of any of your Options if that issuance or exercise would result in a
violation of applicable law, including the federal securities laws and any
applicable state or foreign securities laws.

      (d) The number of Shares issuable upon exercise of your Options shall be
reduced to the nearest whole Share. If you retain some or all of the Shares
after you exercise your Options, you will receive evidence of ownership of those
Shares.

      3. CHANGE OF STATUS. For purposes of this Section 3, your transfer between
the Company and an Affiliate, or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of
employment. In the event of a Change of Control, any applicable terms of Section
4 (Change of Control) will supersede the terms of this Section 3.

(a) Long-Term Disability. In the event you qualify for long-term
disability benefits under a plan or arrangement offered by the Company or an
Affiliate for its Employees, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your
Options. Once this provision applies, no other change of status described in
this Sections 3 (except the provision regarding termination for Cause) will
affect your Options, even if you subsequently return to active service or your
employment with the Company or an Affiliate terminates other than for Cause.

      (b) Death. In the event that your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates due to your death, all of your Options will be immediately
exercisable and will remain exercisable until the close of business on the
Expiration Date.

      (c) Retirement. If your employment with the Company or an Affiliate
terminates (other than for Cause) on after your early retirement date or normal
retirement date (in each case determined under any ERISA qualified benefit plan
offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate) ("Retirement"),
the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options.

      (d) Bridge Eligibility. If your employment with the Company or an
Affiliate terminates (other than for Cause) with bridge eligibility for
retirement-related medical benefits (determined under an ERISA qualified benefit
plan offered by the Company or an Affiliate in which you participate, if any)
("Bridge Eligibility"), and your separation agreement (offered to you under the
severance program offered by the Company or an Affiliate to its Employees)
becomes final, the Standard Terms will continue to apply to your Options.

      (e) Termination for Cause. In the event that your employment with the
Company or an Affiliate terminates for Cause, all of your Options will be
forfeited immediately.

      (f) Other Termination of Employment. Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, if no other provision in this Section 3 regarding change of status
applies, including, for example, your voluntary termination of employment, your
termination without Retirement or Bridge Eligibility, or your termination by the
Company or an Affiliate without Cause, then (a) your Options that are
exercisable as of the date of termination will remain exercisable until the
close of business on the 30th day after the date of your termination or until
they would expire under the Standard Terms, whichever period is shorter; and (b)
all of your Options that are not exercisable at the date of termination of your
employment with the Company or an Affiliate will be forfeited immediately.

      4. CHANGE OF CONTROL.

      (a) Except as provided in Section 4(b) and 4(c), and unless otherwise
prohibited under law or by applicable rules of a national security exchange, if
a Change of Control occurs:

            (1) all of your unexercised Options will become exercisable
      immediately regardless of the applicable exercise schedule; and

            (2) notwithstanding any provisions of Section 3 (Change of Status)
      to the contrary, if your employment with the Company or any Affiliate
      terminates without Cause before the first anniversary of the Change of
      Control, your Options will remain exercisable until the earlier of: (a)
      their expiration under the Standard Terms; or (b) the

                                       2

first anniversary of the termination of your employment. For purposes of
      this Section 4(a)(2), your transfer between the Company and an Affiliate,
      or among Affiliates, will not be a termination of employment.

      (b) Notwithstanding Section 4(a), the Committee may elect to redeem your
Options for a cash payment equal to the Change of Control Price less the
Exercise Price, multiplied by the number of exercisable Options that you have
not yet exercised.

      (c) The terms of Sections 4(a) and 4(b) will not apply to your Options if
the Committee reasonably determines in good faith, prior to the Change of
Control, that you have been granted an Alternative Award for your Options
pursuant to Section 15.2 of the Plan.

      5. NONTRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS. Except as provided in Section 6 or
otherwise permitted by the Committee, you may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign
or otherwise alienate or hypothecate any of your Options, and all rights with
respect to your Options are exercisable during your lifetime only by you.

      6. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION. You may name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently or successively) who may then exercise any right
under this Agreement in the event of your death. Each beneficiary designation
for such purpose will revoke all such prior designations. Beneficiary
designations must be properly completed on a form prescribed by the Committee
and must be filed with the Company during your lifetime. If you have not
designated a beneficiary, your rights under this Agreement will pass to and may
be exercised by your estate.

      7. TAX WITHHOLDING. The Company will withhold from payment made under this
Agreement, or require you to remit, an amount sufficient to satisfy the minimum
statutory Federal, state, and local tax withholding requirements relating to the
exercise of your Options. The Company will defer payment of cash or the issuance
of Shares until this requirement is satisfied. You may satisfy this withholding
requirement by: (a) paying cash to the Company to cover the tax obligation; (b)
having Shares otherwise issuable upon the exercise of your Options withheld by
the Company at the Closing Price of those Shares as of the date of exercise
applied to cover the tax obligation; or (c) delivering previously acquired
Shares to the Company having a Closing Price value as of the date of exercise
equal to all or part of the tax obligation associated with the transaction, and
cash equal to the balance of the tax obligation.

      8. ADJUSTMENTS. The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments in
the terms and conditions of your Options in recognition of unusual or
nonrecurring events affecting the Company or its financial statements, or in
recognition of changes to applicable laws, regulations, or accounting
principles, whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are
appropriate to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the potential
benefits of your Options. The Committee's determination in this regard will be
conclusive.

      9. CLOSING PRICE. For purpose of this Agreement, "Closing Price" will mean
the closing price of a Share as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system for the New York Stock Exchange (or on such other
recognized quotation system on which the trading prices of the Shares are quoted
at the relevant time), or in the event that there are no Share transactions
reported on such tape or other system on the applicable date, the closing price
on the

                                       3

immediately preceding date on which Share transactions were reported. Closing
Price shall constitute "Fair Market Value" under the Plan for all purposes
related to your Options.

      10. NO GUARANTEE OF EMPLOYMENT. This Agreement is not a contract of
employment and it is not a guarantee of employment for life or any period of
time. Nothing in this Agreement interferes with or limits in any way the right
of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate your employment at any time. This
Agreement does not give you any right to continue in the employ of the Company
or an Affiliate.

      11. GOVERNING LAW; CHOICE OF FORUM. This Agreement will be construed in
accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of
the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. Any action
to enforce this Agreement or any action otherwise regarding this Agreement must
be brought in a court in the State of New York, to which jurisdiction the
Company and you consent.

      14. MISCELLANEOUS. For purposes of this Agreement, "Committee" includes
any direct or indirect delegate of the Committee as defined in the Plan and the
word "Section" refers to a Section in this Agreement. Any other capitalized word
used in this Agreement and not defined in this Agreement, including each form of
that word, is defined in the Plan. Any determination or interpretation by the
Committee pursuant to this Agreement will be final and conclusive. In the event
of a conflict between any term of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the
terms of the Plan control. This Agreement and the Plan represent the entire
agreement between you and the Company, and you and all Affiliates, regarding
your Options. No promises, terms, or agreements of any kind regarding your
Options that are not set forth, or referred to, in this Agreement or in the Plan
are part of this Agreement. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held
illegal or invalid, the rest of this Agreement will remain enforceable. If you
are an Employee of an Affiliate, your Options are being provided to you by the
Company on behalf of that Affiliate, and the value of your Options will be
considered a compensation obligation of that Affiliate. The Committee may, in
its discretion, substitute Stock Appreciation Rights for your Options to the
extent permitted by the Plan.

                                       4

15. AMENDMENTS. The Committee has the exclusive right to amend this
Agreement as long as the amendment does not adversely affect any of your
previously-granted Awards in any material way (without your written consent) and
is otherwise consistent with the Plan. The Company will give written notice to
you (or, in the event of your death, to your beneficiary or estate) of any
amendment as promptly as practicable after its adoption.

      16. AGREEMENT TO PROTECT CORPORATE PROPERTY. The grant of your Options is
subject to your execution of the Agreement to Protect Corporate Property
provided to you with this Agreement ("Property Agreement"). If you do not return
a signed copy of the Property Agreement, this Agreement and the Options granted
to you will be void. The Company may in its sole discretion allow an extension
of time for you to return your signed Property Agreement.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused its duly authorized officer to
execute this Agreement, and you have executed this Agreement.

METLIFE, INC.                                  EMPLOYEE

By: Robert H. Benmosche                         [NAME]
    -------------------
    Name

    Chairman of the Board and CEO
    -----------------------------
    Title

    ------------------------------              --------------------------------
    Signature                                   Signature

                                                Date:
                                                     ---------------------------

                                       5

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.41>
 11
 y81517exv10w41.txt
 EX-10.41

EXHIBIT 10.41

                     METLIFE ANNUAL VARIABLE INCENTIVE PLAN

ARTICLE 1. PURPOSE, EFFECTIVENESS, AND DURATION

         1.1 PURPOSE OF THE PLAN. The purpose of the MetLife Annual Variable
Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to align total annual pay with the Company's
annual financial business results, provide competitive levels of pay for
competitive levels of Company performance, and make a competitive portion of
total compensation variable based on Company, business unit, and individual
performance.

         1.2 EFFECTIVE DATE. The Plan shall become effective on the Effective
Date and shall amend, restate, and supersede the prior Annual Variable Incentive
Plan if approved by the Board and shareholders of the Company. In the absence of
shareholder approval, the Plan and any Awards granted pursuant to the Plan prior
to the date of such approval shall be null and void.

         1.3 DURATION OF THE PLAN. The Plan shall remain in effect indefinitely,
subject to the right of the Committee or the Board to amend or terminate the
Plan at any time pursuant to Article 9 herein.

ARTICLE 2. DEFINITIONS

         Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meaning
set forth below, and when the meaning is intended, the initial letter of the
word shall be capitalized.

         2.1      "AFFILIATE" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
                  Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the
                  Exchange Act, with reference to the Company, and shall also
                  include any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited
                  liability company, or other entity in which the Company owns,
                  directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the
                  total combined Voting Power of such corporation or of the
                  capital interest or profits interest of such partnership or
                  other entity.

         2.2      "AWARD" means an annual incentive compensation award payable
                  under this Plan and subject to its terms.

         2.3      "BENEFICIARY" means the person or persons entitled to receive
                  payments or other benefits or exercise rights that are
                  available under the Plan, if any, in the event of the
                  Participant's death.

         2.4      "BOARD" OR "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" means the Board of Directors
                  of the Company.

         2.5      "CODE" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                  amended from time to time, or any successor thereto.

         2.6      "COMMITTEE" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or
                  such other committee as may be appointed by the Board for the
                  purpose of administering the Plan.

         2.7      "COMPANY" means MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any
                  successor thereto.

         2.8      "DIRECTOR" means any individual who is a member of the Board
                  of Directors.

         2.9      "EFFECTIVE DATE" means January 1, 2004.

2.10     "EMPLOYEE" means any employee of the Company or an Affiliate.
                  Directors who are not otherwise employed by the Company or an
                  Affiliate shall not be considered Employees under this Plan.
                  For greater clarity, and without limiting the generality of
                  the foregoing, individuals described in the first sentence of
                  this definition who are foreign nationals or are employed
                  outside of the United States, or both, are Employees to whom
                  Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in
                  the Plan, or (in the case of any individuals who are not
                  Insiders) on such other terms and conditions as may, in the
                  judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to
                  further the purposes of the Plan.

         2.11     "EXCHANGE ACT" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                  amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.

         2.12     "INSIDER" means an individual who is, on the relevant date,
                  subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16 of the
                  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time,
                  or any successor act thereto.

         2.13     "PARTICIPANT" means an Employee of the Company or an Affiliate
                  who has been selected to receive an Award under the terms of
                  the Plan.

         2.14     "PERFORMANCE-BASED COMPENSATION" means compensation to an
                  Insider pursuant to an Award that is granted in order to
                  provide remuneration solely on account of the attainment of
                  one or more preestablished, objective Performance Measures
                  under circumstances that satisfy the requirements of Code
                  Section 162(m).

         2.15     "PERFORMANCE GOAL" means a performance criterion selected by
                  the Committee for a given Award for purposes of Article 11
                  based on one or more of the Performance Measures.

         2.16     "PERFORMANCE MEASURES" means measures as described in Article
                  5, the attainment of one or more of which shall, as determined
                  by the Committee, determine whether Awards shall be payable as
                  Performance-Based Compensation.

         2.17     "PLAN" means the MetLife Annual Variable Incentive Plan.

         2.18     "VOTING POWER" shall mean such number of Voting Securities as
                  shall enable the holders thereof to cast a specified
                  percentage of the votes which could be cast in an annual
                  election of directors of a company.

         2.19     "VOTING SECURITIES" shall mean all securities entitling the
                  holders thereof to vote in an annual election of directors of
                  a company

ARTICLE 3. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION

         3.1 ELIGIBILITY. Each Employee is eligible to participate in the Plan.

         3.2 PARTICIPATION. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee
may from time to time select from all eligible Employees those to whom Awards
shall be granted.

                                       2

ARTICLE 4. AWARD TERMS

         4.1 GRANT OF AWARDS. The Committee shall grant all Awards on and after
the Effective Date and determine in its discretion the amount, nature, and any
and all terms and conditions permissible by law of each Award. Subject to the
requirements of Code Section 162(m) with regard to Awards intended to be
Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may grant Awards (a) in advance of
and contingent upon the attainment of any performance criteria or other
contingencies applicable to the Award; (b) following the attainment of any
performance criteria or other contingencies the Committee previously made
prospectively applicable to an anticipated or possible Award; or (c) that are
and were not contingent upon the attainment of any performance criteria or other
contingencies.

         4.2 MAXIMUM LIMIT REGARDING AWARDS. The maximum aggregate amount
awarded or credited with respect to an Award to any one Participant in any
one-year period may not exceed ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) determined
as of the date the Award is payable.

         4.3 FORM OF PAYMENT. All Awards granted under this Plan shall, if
payable, be payable in cash unless otherwise determined by the Committee.

         4.4 DEFERRAL OF AWARD. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan,
the Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participant's
receipt of any Award under the terms of this Plan or another plan. To the extent
such deferral is permitted by the Committee under the terms of this Plan rather
than another plan, the Committee shall establish rules and procedures for such
deferrals as it sees fit.

ARTICLE 5. PERFORMANCE-BASED COMPENSATION

         Notwithstanding any other terms of this Plan, the vesting, payability,
or value (as determined under the performance formula set by the Committee) of
each Award that the Committee intends, at time of grant, to be Performance-Based
Compensation to an Insider shall be determined by the attainment of one or more
Performance Goals as determined by the Committee in conformity with Code Section
162(m). The Committee shall specify in writing, by resolution or otherwise, the
Participants eligible to receive such an Award (which may be expressed in terms
of a class of individuals) and the Performance Goal(s) applicable to such Awards
within ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period to which the
Performance Goal(s) relate(s) or such earlier time as required to comply with
Code Section 162(m). No such Award shall be payable unless the Committee
certifies in writing, by resolution or otherwise, that the Performance Goal(s)
applicable to the Award were satisfied. In no case may the Committee increase
the value of an Award of Performance-Based Compensation above the maximum value
determined under the performance formula by the attainment of the applicable
Performance Goal(s), but the Committee may retain discretion to reduce the value
below such maximum.

         Unless and until the Committee proposes for shareholder vote and the
shareholders approve a change in the general Performance Measures set forth in
this Article 5, the Performance Goal(s) upon which the payment of an Award to an
Insider that is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation shall be
limited to the following Performance Measures:

         (a)      Net earnings or net income (before or after taxes);

         (b)      Earnings per share;

         (c)      Net sales growth;

         (d)      Net operating profit;

                                       3

(e)      Operating earnings;

         (f)      Operating earnings per share

         (g)      Return measures (including, but not limited to, return on
                  assets, capital, equity, or sales);

         (h)      Cash flow (including, but not limited to, operating cash flow,
                  free cash flow, and cash flow return on capital);

         (i)      Earnings before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, and/or
                  amortization and including/excluding capital gains and losses;

         (j)      Gross or operating margins;

         (k)      Productivity ratios;

         (l)      Share price (including, but not limited to, growth measures
                  and total shareholder return);

         (m)      Expense targets;

         (n)      Margins;

         (o)      Operating efficiency;

         (p)      Customer satisfaction;

         (q)      Employee and/or Agent satisfaction;

         (r)      Working capital targets;

         (s)      Economic Value Added

         (t)      Revenue growth;

         (u)      Assets under management growth; and

         (v)      Rating Agencies' ratings.

         Any Performance Measure may be used to measure the performance of the
Company as a whole, any Affiliate, any business unit of the Company or any
Affiliate, or any combination thereof, as the Committee may deem appropriate, or
any of the above Performance Measures as compared to the performance of a group
of comparator companies, or published or special index that the Committee, in
its sole discretion, deems appropriate. The Committee also has the authority to
provide for accelerated vesting or payability of any Award based on the
achievement of Performance Goal(s).

         The Committee may provide that any evaluation of attainment of a
Performance Goal may include or exclude any of the following events that occurs
during the relevant period: (a) asset write-downs; (b) litigation or claim
judgments or settlements; (c) the effect of changes in tax laws, accounting
principles, or other laws or provisions affecting reported results; (d) any
reorganization and restructuring programs; (e) extraordinary nonrecurring items
as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in
management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders for the
applicable year; (f) acquisitions or divestitures; and (g) foreign exchange
gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to
Insider, they shall be prescribed in a form that meets the requirements of Code
Section 162(m) for deductibility.

         In the event that applicable tax and/or securities laws change to
permit Committee discretion to alter the governing Performance Measures without
obtaining shareholder approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole
discretion to make such changes without obtaining shareholder approval. In
addition, in the event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to
grant Awards to Insiders that shall not qualify as Performance-Based
Compensation, the Committee may make such grants without satisfying the
requirements of Code Section 162(m).

                                       4

ARTICLE 6. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

         The Committee shall determine the extent to which the Participant shall
have the right to receive an Award following termination of the Participant's
employment with the Company or an Affiliate. Such terms need not be uniform
among all Participants and Awards, and may reflect distinctions based on the
reasons for termination or any other bases permissible by law.

ARTICLE 7. BENEFICIARY DESIGNATION

         A Participant may designate a Beneficiary or change a previous
Beneficiary by using forms and following procedures approved or accepted by the
Company or an Affiliate for that purpose. If, at the Participant's death, no
Beneficiary designated by the Participant is eligible to receive payments or
other benefits or exercise rights that are available under the Plan, the
Beneficiary shall be the Participant's surviving spouse or, should the
Participant have no surviving spouse, the Participant's estate. The Committee
may, in its discretion, modify the foregoing, institute additional requirements
for beneficiary designations, or suspend the existing beneficiary designations
of living Participants or the process of determining beneficiaries under this
Article 7, or both, in favor of another method of determining beneficiaries.

ARTICLE 8. ADMINISTRATION

         8.1 GENERAL. The Committee shall be responsible for administering the
Plan. The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants, and other
individuals, any of whom may be an Employee, and the Committee, the Company, and
its officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon the advice, opinions,
or valuations of any such persons. All actions taken and all interpretations and
determinations made by the Committee shall be final, conclusive, and binding
upon the Participants, the Company, Affiliates, and all other interested
parties.

         8.2 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE. The Committee shall have full and
exclusive discretionary power to interpret the terms and the intent of the Plan
or other agreement or document ancillary to or in connection with the Plan, to
determine eligibility for Awards, to determine the terms and conditions of
Awards, and to adopt such rules, regulations, and guidelines for administering
the Plan or exercising any of its rights or responsibilities as the Committee
may deem necessary or proper. Such authority shall include, but not be limited
to, selecting Award recipients, establishing all Award terms and conditions and,
subject to Article 9, adopting modifications and amendments.

         8.3 DELEGATION. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its
members or to one or more officers of the Company or its Affiliates, any of its
duties or powers as it may deem advisable; provided, however, that the Committee
may not delegate any of its non-administrative powers with respect to Awards
intended to be Performance-Based Compensation, and provided further, that the
member(s) or officer(s) shall report periodically to the Committee regarding the
nature and scope of the Awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated
pursuant to this Section 3.3. Subject to the terms of the previous sentence, the
Committee may delegate to any person(s) such administrative duties or powers as
it may deem advisable.

ARTICLE 9. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN

         9.1 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION, SUSPENSION, AND TERMINATION. The Committee
or Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, modify, suspend,
or terminate the Plan in whole or in part. No amendment of the Plan shall be
effective without shareholder approval if shareholder approval is required by
law, regulation, or stock exchange rule.

                                       5

9.2 ADJUSTMENT OF AWARDS UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN UNUSUAL OR
NONRECURRING EVENTS. The Committee may make adjustments in the terms and
conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or
nonrecurring events affecting the Company or the financial statements of the
Company or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles,
whenever the Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order
to prevent unintended dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential
benefits intended to be made available under the Plan. The determination of the
Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and
binding on Participants under the Plan. Adjustment to Awards constituting
Performance-Based Compensation shall be made only if such Awards subsequent to
such adjustments meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility.

         9.3 AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED. Notwithstanding any other provision of
the Plan to the contrary with the exception of Section 1.2, no termination,
amendment, suspension, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any
material way any Award previously granted under the Plan without the written
consent of the Participant holding such Award.

ARTICLE 10. GENERAL PROVISIONS

         10.1 INTERPRETATION. The Plan is designed and intended to comply, to
the extent applicable to Performance-Based Compensation, with Code Section
162(m), and all provisions hereof shall be construed in a manner to so comply.

         10.2 NONTRANSFERABILITY. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee,
Awards may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated
or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant's rights under the
Plan, if any, shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the
Participant.

         10.3 PARTICIPANT RIGHTS. No Participant shall have any right to an
Award under the Plan. The Committee is not obligated to set terms of Awards that
are uniform among Participants or Awards.

         10.4 NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT. Neither eligibility to
participate nor participation in the Plan shall confer upon a Participant any
right to continuation of employment by the Company or any Affiliate, nor shall
the Plan interfere in any way with the Company's or any Affiliate's or any
employee's right to terminate a Participant's employment at any time.

         10.5 WITHHOLDING TAXES. The Company and each Affiliate shall have the
power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to
the Company or Affiliate, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and
local taxes, domestic or foreign (including the Participant's FICA obligation),
required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect to any taxable event
arising or as a result of this Plan.

         10.6 REQUIREMENTS OF LAW. Awards shall be subject to all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations. The inability of the Company or an Affiliate to
obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction which authority is
deemed by the Company's or the Affiliate's counsel to be necessary to the lawful
payment hereunder shall relieve the Company or Affiliate of any liability for
the failure to make a payment as to which such requisite authority shall not
have been obtained.

                                       6

10.7 UNFUNDED PLAN. Participants shall have no right, title, or
interest whatsoever in or to any investments that the Company or any Affiliate
may make to aid it in meeting its obligations under the Plan. Nothing contained
in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be
construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the
Company or any Affiliate and any Participant, beneficiary, legal representative,
or any other person. Awards shall be general, unsecured obligations of the
Company or Affiliate employing the Participant at the time payment pursuant to
an Award is due. Should neither the Company nor an Affiliate employ the
Participant at the time payment pursuant to an Award is due, the Award shall be
the general, unsecured obligation of the last of the Company or Affiliate to
employ the Participant (as such employment is specified in the Human Resources
records of the Company and Affiliates) prior to the time payment is due. To the
extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or
any Affiliate, such right shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured
general creditor of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable. All payments made
under the Plan shall be paid from the general funds of the Company or Affiliate,
as applicable, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no
segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts except as
expressly set forth in the Plan. The Plan is not intended to be subject to
ERISA. Notwithstanding any of the other terms of this Plan, no Affiliate shall
be liable for an Award unless the Affiliate has approved or ratified the Plan or
the Award.

         10.8 OTHER COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PLANS. Nothing in this Plan shall
be construed to limit the right of the Company or any Affiliate to establish
other compensation or benefit plans, programs, policies, or arrangements. Except
as may be otherwise specifically stated in any other benefit plan, policy,
program, or arrangement, no Award shall be treated as compensation for purposes
of calculating a Participant's rights under any such other plan, policy,
program, or arrangement.

         10.9 NO CONSTRAINT ON CORPORATE ACTION. Nothing in this Plan shall be
construed (i) to limit, impair or otherwise affect the Company's or any
Affiliate's right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications,
reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or
consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets or (ii) to limit the right or power of the Company or an
Affiliate to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or
appropriate.

         10.10 GOVERNING LAW. The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Delaware, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle
that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the
substantive law of another jurisdiction.

         10.11 SUCCESSORS. Any obligations of the Company or an Affiliate under
the Plan with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any
successor to the Company or Affiliate, respectively, whether the existence of
such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger,
consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or
assets of the Company or Affiliate, as applicable.

                                       7

</EX-10.41>

<EX-10.46>
 12
 y81517exv10w46.htm
 EX-10.46

exv10w46 

Exhibit 10.46

AMENDMENT 1 TO THE  
METROPOLITAN LIFE AUXILIARY  
SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN  
(Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2008)

1. 
       
     Section 2.4 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 

2.4.  Commissioned Participant  means any Participant in this Plan who is compensated
primarily by commissions, except that the term Commissioned Employee shall not include any
Participant who is classified by the Company as a group commissioned employee.  

2. 
       
     Subsection (c) of Section 2.6 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 

(c) For purposes of Sections 4.8 and 4.10, except as otherwise provided in Sections
4.8(a) and 4.10(a), the Default Commencement Date shall be the October 1 st 
following the date of the Commissioned Participant s attainment of his or her sixtieth
(60 th ) birthday. 

3. 
       
     Subsection (a) of Section 4.10 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 

(a)  Distribution of Vested Account Balance in Absence of Election . Unless a
Commissioned Participant makes an election on or after January 1, 2009, in accordance with
subsection (b) or in accordance with Section 4.8, a Commissioned Participant will be deemed
to have elected to receive his or her vested account balance in the Default Mode of
Payment, payable as of the Default Commencement Date, regardless of whether or not she or
had previously
experienced a Termination of Employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect
to a Commissioned Participant who has attained the age of fifty-nine (59)

1 

or older prior to becoming eligible to participate in this Plan, such Participant s vested account balance
under this Plan will be distributed in the Default Mode of Payment as of October
1 st  of the year following the fifth anniversary of the date on which s/he
commenced participation in the Plan. If a Commissioned Participant to whom this subsection
(a) applies remains actively employed and Company contributions continue to be made to his
or her account under this Plan in accordance with Section 4.1, then every five years after
such Participant s initial distribution, such additional contributions which are made
during the Plan Year in which distributions commence and which are thereafter credited to
the Participant s account prior to his or her Termination of Employment shall be
distributed in a single sum. 

4. 
       
     Article 6 of the Plan is hereby amended as follows: 

Article 6    Nontransferability of Participant s Interest  

Except for any payments to a person other than the Participant, to the extent of an
election by such person which is reflected in, or made in accordance with the provisions of
a court order or decree which the Plan Administrator has determined constitutes a domestic
relations order, as defined in Code
  414(p)(1)(B), no Participant shall have any power or right to transfer, assign, mortgage,
commute or otherwise encumber any of the benefits payable hereunder, nor shall such
benefits be subject to seizure for the payment of any debts or
judgments, or be transferable by operation of law in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency or
otherwise. 

2 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed in its name and behalf
this 9 th  day of December, 2008, by its officer thereunto duly authorized.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By   
     /s/ Margery Brittain

ATTEST:

/s/ Bonita Haskins

3 

</EX-10.46>

<EX-10.54>
 13
 y81517exv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54

exv10w54 

Exhibit 10.54

AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE TO THE 
METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

(As amended and restated effective with respect to salary and Cash Incentive 
Compensation January 1, 2005, and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15, 2005)

The MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby amended, effective January 1,
2010, as follows:

1. 
       
     Section 8 is hereby added to read as follows: 

Matching Contribution . If a Participant makes contributions to SIP throughout a calendar
year, the Participant s Matching Contribution Account shall be credited with a 4% Matching
Contribution on any amount that would have been eligible for a contribution into SIP, under the
terms of that plan without application of certain Tax Code limitations under Code sections 415 and
401(a)(17) and that was, in fact, deferred into this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
Matching Contributions shall be credited in favor of a Participant during the suspension of such
Participant s deferrals pursuant to Section 4.6 of this Plan. A Participant s Matching Contribution
Account shall vest or be forfeited to the same extent, and on such date(s), that such Matching
Contributions would have vested or been forfeited under the terms of SIP. 

2. 
       
     Section 12.2 is hereby amended to read as follows: 

The total amount of deferrals suspended or payment advanced shall not exceed the amount
necessary to satisfy the financial consequences of the Unforeseeable Emergency plus any
amounts necessary to pay any of the Participant s federal, state or local income taxes
reasonably anticipated to result from such distribution and shall not exceed the total value
of the Deferred Compensation Accounts under the Plan. In determining the amount to be
distributed from the Plan on a finding of an Unforeseeable Emergency, the Plan Administrator
shall consider the availability of funds from other sources to satisfy the Unforeseeable
Emergency including the availability of an in-service withdrawal from SIP, and shall offset
those available amounts from the amount distributed from this Plan. No accommodation pursuant
to this Section 12 shall be implemented in a manner or at a time when prohibited or punishable
by any applicable Affiliate policy or law, including but not limited to laws regarding trading
of securities on inside information and the exemptions therefrom. 

3. Section 20 is hereby amended to read as follows:

Qualified Domestic Relations Orders . The Plan Administrator will distribute, designate,
or otherwise recognize the attachment of any portion of a Participant s Deferred Compensation
Accounts in favor of the Participant s spouse, former spouse or dependents to the extent such
action is mandated by the terms of a qualified domestic relations order as defined in Section
414(p) of the Code, and otherwise as determined by this Plan. In cases where the qualified domestic
relations order does not state a specific time and form

1 

for distribution of the interest of the
spouse, former spouse or dependents, then the interest of these third party beneficiaries will be
paid directly to them in a lump sum as soon as administratively possible after the Plan
Administrator reviews the court order and determines that it properly applies to the Plan. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has caused this Amendment to be adopted this
11 th  day of December, 2009.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR 

/s/ Margery Brittain 

Margery Brittain 

ATTEST:

/s/ Bonita Haskins

2 

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 14
 y81517exv10w55.htm
 EX-10.55

exv10w55 

Exhibit 10.55

AMENDMENT NUMBER FOUR TO THE 
METLIFE LEADERSHIP DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
(As amended and restated effective with respect to salary and Cash Incentive Compensation 
January 1, 2005, and with respect to Stock Compensation April 15, 2005)

WHEREAS,  the MetLife Leadership Deferred Compensation Plan (the  Plan ), was adopted to permit
certain eligible employees voluntarily to defer the payment of certain types of compensation;

WHEREAS , certain other nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements have been entered into with
employees who are eligible to participate in the Plan, which arrangements either expressly or
implicitly incorporate aspects of the Plan, and/or are otherwise administered, in whole or in part,
in a manner consistent with the administration of the Plan; and to facilitate the administration of
such other arrangements, it has been recommended that such arrangements be incorporated into the
Plan;

WHEREAS , pursuant to Section 19 of the Plan, the Plan Administrator has reserved the right to amend
the Plan;

The Plan is hereby amended effective December 31, 2009, in the manner set forth below:

1. Section 4 is amended to add a new Section 4.8 to read as follows, and to appropriately renumber
all other sections thereof to reflect the addition of such Section:

4.8. The Plan Administrator may permit other nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements,
whether or not elective, between an Eligible Associate and any MetLife Company to be administered
under and treated as part of the Plan. The Plan Administrator shall establish a separate
Alternative Compensation Account for an Eligible Associate who is party to a nonqualified deferred
compensation arrangement treated as part of the Plan. Unless otherwise provided in the
corresponding non-qualified deferred compensation arrangement, herein, on Annex I or by the Plan
Administrator in writing, the provisions of the Plan shall apply to any such Alternative
Compensation Account, including without limitation, those provisions related to (i) the value of
the Alternative Contribution Account (including the Investment Tracking of such Account), (ii) the
timing, number and form of payments from such Account and (iii) the designation of any
beneficiary(ies) to receive payment from such Account upon death of the Participant. 

2. Section 10 is amended to add a new Section 10.3.11 at the end of Section 10.3 thereof, to read
as follows:

10.3.11. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10.3 to the contrary, payment in respect of any
Alternative Compensation Account shall not be modified from the date payment would have been made
under the corresponding nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement, as identified on Annex I or
as otherwise specified in writing and submitted to the Plan Administrator by the Eligible Associate
prior to January 1, 2009. 

1 

3. Section 22 is amended to add new Sections 22.2 and 22.3 thereto, to read as follows, and to
appropriately renumber all other sections thereof to reflect the addition of such Section:

22.2  Alternative Compensation Account  means a record-keeping account established for the
benefit of an Eligible Associate which is credited with amounts deferred under the nonqualified
deferred compensation arrangement, specified in Annex I, to which such Account relates. 

22.3  Annex I  means the schedule established by the Plan Administrator, as may be amended by the
Plan Administrator at any time and from time to time, which describes the nonqualified deferred
compensation arrangement that is to be administered as part of the Plan. Annex I, is expressly
incorporated into the Plan reference and made a part hereof. 

4. Section 22.7,  Deferred Compensation Account , is amended to add a second sentence that will
read as follows:

To the extent the context so requires, the term Deferred Compensation Account, as applied to any
Participant, shall also include any Alternative Compensation Account established for the benefit of
such Participant. 

5. Section 22.23,  Participant , is amended to add a second sentence that will read as follows:

To the extent that the context so requires, the term Participant shall also include any Eligible
Associate for whose benefit an Alternative Compensation Account has been established under the
Plan. 

6. The Plan is further amended to add at the end thereof, a new Annex I, as is attached hereto,
which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Plan Administrator has caused this Amendment to be adopted this
11 th  day of December, 2009.

PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

/s/ Margery Brittain

Margery Brittain

ATTEST:

/s/ Bonita Haskins

2 

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.70>
 15
 y81517exv10w70.txt
 EX-10.70

EXHIBIT 10.70

               METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

                            EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2000

METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

           (PLAN TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF SEVERANCE PAY AND OTHER
       BENEFITS TO CERTAIN OFFICERS WHO ARE INVOLUNTARILY DISCONTINUED.)

           ARTICLE 1 THE PLAN: EFFECTIVE DATE: PLAN YEAR: DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.1 THE PLAN: This plan shall be known as the MetLife Plan for
Transition Assistance for Officers (hereafter called the "Plan").

SECTION 1.2 EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 2000.

SECTION 1.3 PLAN YEAR: The Plan Year shall be a calendar year.

SECTION 1.4 DEFINITIONS: Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
defined below shall have the following meanings for all purposes of the Plan.

SECTION 1.4.01 AFFILIATE: "Affiliate" means any corporation which is in the same
controlled group of corporations, within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the
Internal Revenue Code, as the Company and any other trade or business which is
part of the same commonly controlled group of trades or businesses, within the
meaning of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, as the Company.

SECTION 1.4.02 COMPANY: "Company" means the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

SECTION 1.4.03 DATE OF DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT: "Date of Discontinuance of
Employment" means the date set by the Company or Subsidiary as the date the
Employee separates from the service of the Company or Subsidiary. The Company or
Subsidiary reserves the right to alter the Date of Discontinuance of Employment
at its sole and absolute discretion for any reason it deems appropriate,
including but not limited to, work conditions and the Disability of an Employee
prior to the Date of Discontinuance of Employment as originally set or agreed
upon by the Company or Subsidiary.

                                       2

SECTION 1.4.04 DISABILITY: "Disability" means that the employee is disabled as
defined in the "Disability" section of the MetLife Options Plus Summary Plan
Description Book and is receiving benefits under either the Metropolitan Short
Term Disability Plan or Long Term Disability Plan (or the successor plan(s) to
such plans).

SECTION 1.4.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT:

      (a) "Discontinuance of Employment" means a Discontinuance of Employment
      Under the Provisions of the Staffing Adjustment Policy.

      (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, and without limitation, the following
      shall not constitute a Discontinuance of Employment:

            (1) The transfer of an Employee to or from the Company, to or from
      the Subsidiary or to or from an Affiliate;

            (2) The transfer of an Employee to, or the hire of an Employee by,
      an employer other than an Affiliate as a result of a sale, merger,
      acquisition, outsourcing of a function or similar transaction, provided
      the Employee continues to perform the same or similar duties immediately
      following such transfer or hire. The determination of whether an employee
      continues to perform the same or similar duties immediately following such
      transfer shall be exclusively determined by the Company or Subsidiary; or

            (3) Unless the Company or Subsidiary decides otherwise, in its sole
      and absolute discretion, the voluntary cessation of employment with the
      Company or Subsidiary prior to the Date of Discontinuance of Employment;

            (4) the termination of employment of an Employee who has entered
      into a written employment contract with the Company or Subsidiary; or

            (5) a Discontinuance of Employment for Cause.

                                       3

SECTION 1.4.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT FOR CAUSE: "Discontinuance of
Employment for Cause" means the involuntary cessation of an Employee's
employment with the Company or Subsidiary because the Employee has

      (a) engaged in a serious infraction of Company or Subsidiary policy, theft
      of Company or Subsidiary property or services or other dishonest conduct
      otherwise injurious to the interests of the Company or Subsidiary, each as
      determined solely by the Company or Subsidiary; or

      (b) demonstrated unacceptable lateness or absenteeism.

SECTION 1.4.07 DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PERFORMANCE: "Discontinuance of
Employment for Performance" means the involuntary cessation of an Employee's
employment with the Company or Subsidiary because the Employee has failed to
meet acceptable standards of job performance, each as determined solely by the
Company or Subsidiary.

SECTION 1.4.08 DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE
COMPANY'S STAFFING ADJUSTMENT POLICY: "Discontinuance of Employment under the
Provisions of the Company's Staffing Adjustment Policy" means the involuntary
cessation of an Employee's employment with the Company or Subsidiary because of
a Job Elimination or a Discontinuation of Employment for Performance. In
addition, the Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute discretion,
offer an Employee the choice of voluntarily resigning from the Company or
Subsidiary. Those Employees who voluntarily resign under these circumstances
following such a request by the Company or Subsidiary will be considered to have
been terminated under the Company's Staffing Adjustment Policy. An Employee may
be deemed to have been terminated under this Policy whether or not the Employee
was subject to a Job Elimination.

SECTION 1.4.09 EMPLOYEE: "Employee" means anyone who:

                                       4

(a) is employed and compensated in the United States by the Company or a
      Subsidiary,

      (b) is either:

            (1) a regular full-time employee, or

            (2) a regular part-time employee whose regularly scheduled annual
      service is 1,000 hours or more in a 12-month period,

      (c) is either or both:

            (1) an officer of the Company or of a Subsidiary, or

            (2) an employee of the Company in its Law Department holding the
            title of Assistant General Counsel or Associate General Counsel,
            regardless of whether that employee is an officer of the Company,

      (d) is not a temporary employee,

      (e) has not received a "Notice of Continued Eligibility" under the terms
      of the MetLife Severance Pay Plan for Officers, as amended (and whose
      employment is discontinued on or prior to December 31, 2000),

      (f) is not a leased employee within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code
      Section 414(n), and

      (g) is not performing services for the Company or a Subsidiary under an
      agreement in which such individual acknowledges that he or she is an
      independent contractor and that he or she is not entitled to participate
      in the Company's or Subsidiary's employee benefit plans.

The classification of Employees will be conclusively determined by the Company
or Subsidiary in its sole and absolute discretion.

                                       5

SECTION 1.4.10 EQUIVALENT WEEK'S SALARY: "Equivalent Week's Salary" means the
amount of annual Salary divided by fifty-two (52).

SECTION 1.4.11 JOB ELIMINATION: "Job Elimination" means the Company's or
Subsidiary's determination that an Employee's position has been or will be
eliminated because of a Company or Subsidiary staffing adjustment or other
organizational change, expense reduction considerations, office closings or
relocations (including but not limited to adjustments in the number of staff in
a department or unit or the elimination of all or some of the functions of a
department or unit), in which the Employee will not be replaced by another
person in the same position.

SECTION 1.4.12 JOB ELIMINATION PARTICIPANT: "Job Elimination Adjustment
Participant" means any Employee who has received a Notice of Discontinuance and
whose employment is terminated because of a Job Elimination.

SECTION 1.4.13 NOTICE OF DISCONTINUANCE: "Notice of Discontinuance" means
written notice by the Company or Subsidiary to an Employee which advises such
Employee of his or her Date of Discontinuance of Employment.

SECTION 1.4.14 OUTPLACEMENT ASSISTANCE: "Outplacement Assistance" means such
program for assistance with career planning and strategy development and job
placement the content and terms of which are determined solely by the Company or
Subsidiary at its discretion.

SECTION 1.4.15 PARTICIPANT: "Participant" means either a Job Elimination
Participant or a Performance Participant.

SECTION 1.4.16 PERFORMANCE PARTICIPANT: "Performance Participant" means any
Employee who has received a Notice of Discontinuance and whose employment is
terminated because of Discontinuance of Employment for Performance and:

                                       6

(a) whose Service is at least equal to five (5); and

      (b) whose performance rating on the most recent annual performance review
      is no lower than "2," and

      (c) if the Employee's Date of Discontinuance is on or after January 1,
      2001, whose performance rating for the annual performance review
      immediately preceding the most recent annual performance review is no
      lower than "3;"

provided, however, that the Company or Subsidiary may in its sole discretion
deem any Employee whose employment is terminated because of Discontinuance of
Employment for Performance to be a Performance Participant.

SECTION 1.4.17 SALARY: "Salary" means the Employee's base salary as of the Date
of Discontinuance of Employment, excluding overtime, premium pay, incentive
compensation, and bonus payments paid to the Employee by the Company or
Subsidiary for services rendered, before any payroll deductions, including
taxes.

SECTION 1.4.18 SEPARATION AGREEMENT: "Separation Agreement" means an agreement
which includes a general release duly executed in favor of the Company and/or
Subsidiary in the form prescribed by the Company or Subsidiary which has become
final and irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of the Separation
Agreement and applicable law. Such Separation Agreement may include, without
limitation, an acknowledgment that neither the Company nor Subsidiary, nor any
of their subsidiaries or affiliates shall have any obligation to rehire the
Participant at any time.

                                       7

SECTION 1.4.19 SERVICE: "Service" means the whole number of the Employee's
completed years of employment with the Company, Subsidiary and/or Affiliate.
Completed years of employment will be computed based on the anniversaries of the
date the Employee was first employed by the Company, Subsidiary, and/or
Affiliate and ending on the Date of Discontinuance of Employment. However, if
the Employee incurred any break in service, the period of Service will be
computed as illustrated in the "Other Information" section of the MetLife
Options Plus Summary Plan Description Book.

      (a) In the event that severance pay was previously paid to an Employee by
      the Company, Subsidiary, or an Affiliate under this Plan or a similar plan
      of the Company, a Subsidiary or Affiliate, completed years of employment
      will be computed from the date the Employee was first reemployed by the
      Company, Subsidiary, or Affiliate after the cessation of employment for
      which prior severance pay was paid. For purposes of the break in service
      rules set forth in the MetLife Options Plus Summary Plan Description book,
      in no event shall any Service of an Employee that was rendered prior to
      the cessation of employment for which prior severance pay was paid be
      counted.

      (b) If the Employee is a regular full-time Employee with a period of
      employment with the Company, Subsidiary, or Affiliate as a part-time
      Employee, or a regular part-time Employee with a period of service as a
      regular full-time Employee, the Employee will be given credit for
      part-time Service in accordance with the Company's Continuous Service Date
      Policy.

SECTION 1.4.20 SEVERANCE PAY: "Severance Pay" means the Participant's Equivalent
Week's Salary multiplied by the sum of twenty-eight (28) plus the Participant's
Service, provided, however, that if the sum is greater than fifty-two (52), the
sum shall be deemed to be fifty-two

                                       8

(52), and provided further, however, that if the Participant is a Performance
Participant, the sum shall be further divided by two (2).

SECTION 1.4.20 SUBSIDIARY: "Subsidiary" means the following Affiliate(s) of the
Company:

      (a) Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company.

      (b) MetLife Securities, Inc.

      (c) MetLife Trust Company, N.A.

      (d) Edison Supply and Distribution, Inc.

                                ARTICLE 2 FUNDING

The Plan is an unfunded employee benefit plan established by the Company and the
benefit payable under the Plan to Employees shall be paid out of the general
assets of the Company or a Subsidiary that formerly employed the Employee.

                              ARTICLE 3 FIDUCIARIES

SECTION 3.1 NAMED FIDUCIARY: The Named Fiduciary of the Plan with authority to
control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan is the Company.

SECTION 3.2 PLAN ADMINISTRATOR: The Plan Administrator is the Company.

SECTION 3.3 DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES: The Company, as Named Fiduciary of
the Plan, hereby designates the Chief Executive Officer or his designate to
carry out all of the Company's fiduciary responsibilities under the Plan.

SECTION 3.4 POWERS OF THE PLAN ADMINISTRATOR: In carrying out the fiduciary
responsibilities delegated to it, the Plan Administrator shall have the power
to:

                                       9

(a) Interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan, decide any disputes
      that may arise as to the rights of Employees to the benefit under the Plan
      and, in general, direct the administration of the Plan in accordance with
      its terms.

      (b) Adopt such rules and procedures as the Plan Administrator may deem
      necessary or appropriate in the exercise of its authority and discharge of
      its obligations under the Plan.

      (c) Delegate to one or more other persons such administrative obligations
      as it deems appropriate.

      (d) Do all other acts, take all other proceedings and exercise such other
      rights and privileges, though not specifically mentioned herein, as the
      Plan Administrator may deem necessary or appropriate to carry out the
      purposes of the Plan in compliance with applicable law.

SECTION 3.5 SERVICE OF LEGAL PROCESS: The Plan Administrator is designated the
Plan's agent for service of legal process.

                             ARTICLE 4 PLAN BENEFITS

SECTION 4.1 SEVERANCE PAY: The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and
absolute discretion, grant Severance Pay to a Participant as determined under
the terms of this Plan, provided that the Participant has entered into a
Separation Agreement. The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, grant Severance Pay in excess of or less than the amount reflected
in this Plan taking all pertinent facts and circumstances into consideration.
The Company or Subsidiary will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether a
Participant is entitled to Severance Pay and the amount thereof.

                                       10

SECTION 4.2 PAYMENT OF SEVERANCE PAY: The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole
and absolute discretion, offer a Participant an election of method between the
following methods of payment of Severance Pay, if any:

      (a) a single sum as soon as practicable following the legally effective
      date of the Separation Agreement; or

      (b) in installments of such amounts and over such period of time as
      determined by the Company or Subsidiary in its sole discretion, paid
      generally on the same dates and by similar means as the Company's or
      Subsidiary's payroll payments, commencing after the effective date of the
      Separation Agreement.

Such election shall be communicated in the form and at such time prescribed by
the Company and Subsidiary. Unless waived by the Company or Subidiary in its
sole and absolute discretion, a Participant's election shall be final and
irrevocable. If the Company or Subsidiary offers the Participant an election,
and the Participant fails to make an election by such method as is prescribed by
the Company or Subsidiary, the Severance Pay shall be paid in installments as
described above. If the time over which installment payments of Severance Pay
are to be made has expired prior to the effective date of the Separation
Agreement, and the Participant has elected to receive Severance Pay in
installments, the Company will pay the Severance Pay in a single installment. If
the Participant is immediately eligible to receive pension payments under the
terms of the retirement plan(s) of the Company or Subsidiary, and chooses to
begin receiving such pension payments immediately or shortly after the
Participant's Date of Discontinuance, the Participant will be deemed to have
chosen the lump sum payment method regardless of the Participant's actual
election. The Company or Subsidiary shall not be obligated to pay interest on
the delayed or installment payment of Severance Pay to the Participant.

                                       11

SECTION 4.3 OUTPLACEMENT ASSISTANCE: The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole
and absolute discretion, grant Outplacement Assistance to a Participant,
provided that the Participant has granted a Separation Agreement. The Company or
Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute discretion, grant Outplacement
Assistance in excess of or less than the amount reflected in this Plan taking
all pertinent facts and circumstances into consideration. The Company or
Subsidiary will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether a Participant is
entitled to Outplacement Assistance and the nature and duration thereof.

SECTION 4.4 REHIRE: If a Participant is reemployed in a position with the
Company or an Affiliate comparable to the Participant's last position with the
Company or an Affiliate within one year of the Date of Discontinuance of
Employment, the Company or Affiliate may, in its sole and absolute discretion,
require the Participant to repay a prorated portion of the Severance Pay
received.

                         ARTICLE 5 OPERATION OF THE PLAN

SECTION 5.1 EFFECT OF SEVERANCE PAY ON OTHER BENEFIT DETERMINATIONS: Receipt by
the Participant of Notice Period Pay, Severance Pay, or Outplacement Assistance
shall have no effect on the determination of benefits under any Employee benefit
plan, except as provided in those respective plans. In no event will any
Participant be entitled to receive any pay or benefits under both this Plan and
any other severance plan maintained by the Company, Subsidiary, or Affiliate in
connection with the same Discontinuance of Employment.

SECTION 5.2 EFFECT OF DEATH PRIOR TO DATE OF DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT: If
death of a Participant occurs prior to the established Date of Discontinuance of
Employment, no benefits shall be payable under the Plan.

                                       12

SECTION 5.3 DEATH OF PARTICIPANT SUBSEQUENT TO DATE OF DISCONTINUANCE OF
EMPLOYMENT: If a Participant dies after Date of Discontinuance of Employment,
the balance of any Severance Pay due the Participant will be paid to the
Participant's estate as soon after the Participant's death as may be
practicable.

SECTION 5.4 EFFECT OF DISABILITY OR LEAVE OF ABSENCE PRIOR TO DISCONTINUANCE OF
EMPLOYMENT: If a Disability or leave of absence occurs prior to the established
Date of Discontinuance of Employment, and the office to which the Participant is
assigned is being closed, employment will be terminated and Severance Pay shall
be payable coincident with the closing of the office, without prejudice to
payment of disability. In all other cases, employment status and eligibility for
Severance Pay will be determined upon cessation of disability benefits or at the
end of the leave of absence.

SECTION 5.5 CLAIMS AND REVIEW PROCEDURE:

      (a) Claims Procedure. If any person believes he/she is being denied any
      rights or benefits under this Plan, such person may, in writing, request
      reconsideration from the Plan Administrator. If any such claim is wholly
      or partially denied, the Plan Administrator will notify such person of its
      decision in writing. Such notification will be written in a manner
      calculated to be understood by such person and will contain (i) specific
      reasons for the denial, (ii) specific reference to pertinent Plan
      provisions, (iii) a description of any additional material or information
      necessary for such person to perfect such claim and an explanation of why
      such material or information is necessary and (iv) information as to the
      steps to be taken if the person wishes to submit a request for review.
      Such notification will be given within 90 days after the claim is received
      by the Plan Administrator (or within 180 days, if special circumstances
      require an extension of time

                                       13

for processing the claim, and if written notice of such extension and
      circumstances is given to such person within the initial 90 day period).

      (b) Review Procedure. Within 60 days after the date on which a person
      receives a written notice of a denied claim (or, if applicable, within 60
      days after the date on which such denial is considered to have occurred)
      such person (or a duly authorized representative) may (i) file a written
      request with the Plan Administrator for a review of the denied claim and
      of pertinent documents and (ii) submit written issues and comments to the
      Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator will notify such person of its
      decision in writing. Such Notification will be written in a manner
      calculated to be understood by such person and will contain specific
      reasons for the decision as well as specific references to pertinent Plan
      provisions. The decision on review will be made within 60 days after the
      request for review is received by the Plan Administrator (or within 120
      days, if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing
      the request, such as an election by the Plan Administrator to hold a
      hearing, and if written notice of such extension and circumstances is
      given to such person within the initial 60 day period). If the decision on
      review is not made within such period, the claim will be considered
      denied.

                   ARTICLE 6 AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN

SECTION 6.1 AMENDMENT: The Company may amend or terminate this Plan or any
benefit or coverage thereunder at any time by means of a written instrument
executed by a person authorized by the Company, subject to the limitations of
this section. Except as hereinafter stated, the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company or his designate is authorized to amend this

                                       14

Plan by formal action. Any amendment or group of amendments adopted on the same
date, which would increase or decrease the annual cost of Plan benefits for
Participants by $10 million or more shall be adopted by formal action of the
Board of Directors of the Company.

SECTION 6.2 TERMINATION OF PLAN: The Company reserves the right to terminate the
Plan at any time. This Plan shall not automatically terminate on any date.

SECTION 6.3 LIMITATION ON AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN: If an eligible
Participant has granted a Separation Agreement, no Amendment or Termination of
this Plan by the Company shall diminish the Participant's rights obtained
pursuant to this Plan.

SECTION 6.4 CONSTRUCTION OF PLAN PROVISIONS: The Company and Subsidiaries shall
have full and complete sole and absolute discretion to interpret and construe
all Plan provisions, and such interpretation shall be final and binding on all
Employees.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and each Subsidiary cause this MetLife Plan for
Transition Assistance to be executed on the date indicated below each signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   __________________________
       Lisa M. Weber
       Senior Vice-President

/s/ Susan Berger
_____________________________
Witness

Date  12/21/99

                                       15

METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

By  /s/ Richard Berstein
___________________________________

/s/ Anne-Marie Guarini
___________________________________
Witness

Date:  1/3/00

METLIFE SECURITIES, INC.

By /s/ Barbara A. Hume
___________________________________

/s/ Mark A. Schuman
___________________________________
Witness

Date:  1/5/2000

METLIFE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By /s/ Tim Kenczewicz
___________________________________

___________________________________
Witness

Date:  1/07/2000

EDISON SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION, INC.

By /s/ Klaus Schubert
   ________________________________

___________________________________
Witness

Date:  12/21/99

                                       16

AMENDMENT NUMBER ONE

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1. The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following article and section:

      "ARTICLE 7 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

      Section 7.1 Contractual Obligations: Notwithstanding any other provision
      of this Plan, the Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute
      discretion, grant Severance Pay to any Employee in order to satisfy a
      contractual obligation, in whole or in part, of the Company or a
      Subsidiary. The Company or Subsidiary may deem any Employee to be a
      Participant for this purpose. The agreements creating such contractual
      obligations as the Company or a Subsidiary have chosen or may choose to
      satisfy by granting Severance Pay are listed in Appendix A."

2. This amendment shall become effective on January 1, 2000.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has caused this
amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s)
noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By       /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   ____________________________
           Lisa M. Weber
      Executive Vice-President

Date: 2/24/00
      _____________________________

/s/ Susan Berger
___________________________________
Witness

APPENDIX A TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS
                               LIST OF AGREEMENTS

The Company or a Subsidiary may satisfy contractual obligations, in whole or in
part, under the following agreements pursuant to Article 7 of the Plan:

1.    Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement Dated as of July 12, 1999 Between St.
      Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, Metropolitan Property & Casualty
      Insurance Company.

                                       2

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

l. The Plan is hereby amended by replacing subsection 1.4.09(c)(1) in its
entirety with the following:

            "(1) an officer of:

                  (a) the Company,

                  (b) Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company,

                  (c) MetLife Securities, Inc.,

                  (d) Edison Supply and Distribution, Inc., or

                  (e) MetLife Trust Company, N.A. holding the title of President
                  or Senior VicePresident, or"

2. This amendment shall be effective as of August 28, 2000.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and MetLife Trust
Company, N.A. have caused this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto
duly authorized on the date(s) noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   ____________________________
       Lisa M. Weber
       Executive Vice President

Date:  August 29, 2000

   /s/ Traci Bigler
_______________________________
Witness

METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Richard W. Berstein
   ________________________________
Name:  Richard W. Berstein
Date:  November 10, 2000

/s/ Anne-Marie Guarini
___________________________________
Witness Anne-Marie Guarini

METLIFE SECURITIES, INC.

By /s/ George Christ
   ________________________________
Name:  George Christ
       President
       MetLife Securities, Inc.

Date:  11/27/00

___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By /s/ James Capodanno
   ________________________________
Name:  James Capodanno
       Senior Vice President
       and Chief Operating
       Officer

Date:  December 18, 2000

___________________________________
Witness

AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1. The Plan is hereby amended by replacing subsection 1.4.09(c) in its entirety
                              with the following:

            "(c) is any one or more of:

                  (1) an officer of the Company, Metropolitan Property and
                  Casualty Insurance Company, or Edison Supply and Distribution,
                  Inc.;

                  (2) an employee of MetLife Trust Company, N.A. holding the
                  title of President or Senior Vice-President;

                  (3) an employee of the Company or of Metropolitan Property and
                  Casualty Insurance Company holding the title of Assistant Vice
                  President;

                  (4) an employee of the Company in the Law Department of the
                  Company holding the title of Assistant General Counsel or
                  Associate General Counsel; or

                  (5) an employee of the Company or of the Subsidiary whom the
                  Company or Subsidiary has assigned a salary grade of 32, 33,
                  34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 92, 132, 231, 232, 233, 234,
                  235, 236, 531, 532, 533, 534, 774, 775, 776, 777, 778, 779, or
                  780, or any successor salary grade

thereto;"

2. This amendment shall be effective as of October 27, 2000. IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and each Subsidiary has caused this
amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s)
noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   __________________________
        Lisa M. Weber
    Executive Vice President

Date:    11/7/00

___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By /s/ Tim Kenczewicz
   ____________________________
Name:    Tim Kenczewicz

Date:    9/1/00

/s/ Marjorie B. Demko
___________________________________
Witness

                                       2

AMENDMENT NUMBER FOUR

            TO THE METLME PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1. The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following Articles and Sections:

                       "ARTICLE 8 PARTICULAR OUTSOURCINGS

                                   (Reserved)

                        ARTICLE 9 PARTICULAR RELOCATIONS

Section 9.1 2001-2003 NEW YORK HOME OFFICE AND 200 PARK AVENUE RELOCATIONS:
Notwithstanding the terms of Sections 1.4.05, 1.4.08, 1.4.11, or 1.4.12, an
Employee shall be deemed a Job Elimination Participant:

(a) whose employment is discontinued because the Employee has either:

      (i)   declined an offer of job relocation to a new site of employment
            which was made as a result of the reallocation of work space in the
            Company's New York Home Office and/or 200 Park Avenue office in
            2001, 2002, or 2003; or

      (ii)  voluntarily discontinued employment, on or before the first
            anniversary of that job relocation, because of job relocation to a
            new site of employment which is made as a result of the reallocation
            of work space in the Company's New York Home Office and/or 200 Park
            Avenue office in 2001, 2002, or 2003; and

(b) regarding whom the difference (as determined by the Company in its
discretion) of (i) less

(ii) below is thirty-five (35) miles or greater, where:

      (i)   is the traveling distance from the Employee's primary residence, on
            the date the offer is made, to the new site of employment of the job
            offered; and

      (ii)  is the traveling distance from the Employee's primary residence, on
            the date the offer is made, to the Employee's regular site of
            employment, as of the date the offer is made."

2. This amendment shall be effective as of May 25, 2001.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and MetLife Securities,
Inc. have each caused this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly
authorized on the date(s) noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   __________________________
        Lisa M. Weber
    Executive Vice-President

Date:  5/31/01

/s/ Joanna May
___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE SECURITIES, INC.

By /s/ George Christ
   ____________________________
Name:  George Christ

Date:  6/5/01

/s/ L. Mateo
___________________________________
Witness

                                       2

EDISON SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION, INC.

By /s/ Klaus Schubert
   ________________________________

Name:    Klaus Schubert

Date:    11/21/2000

/s/      Mark A. Schuman
___________________________________
Witness

                                       3

AMENDMENT NUMBER FIVE

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

l.    The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following to subsection 1.4.20:
      "(e)MetLife Bank, National Association"

2.    The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following to subsection 1.4.09:
      "(h)is not an employee of MetLife Bank, National Association in its Grand
      Bank division."

3.    This amendment shall be effective as of June 1, 2001.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, each Subsidiary, and
MetLife Bank, National Association have each caused this amendment to be
executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s) noted below the
officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   ________________________________

        Lisa M. Weber
        Executive Vice President

Date: 6/21/01

/s/ Joanna May
___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE SECURITIES, INC.

By /s/ George Christ
   _________________________________
Name:  George Christ

Date:  8/14/01

___________________________________
Witness

                                       5

METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Richard W. Berstein
  _________________________________
Name:  Richard W. Berstein

Date:  8/23/01

/s/ Anna-Marie Guarini
___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.

By /s/ James A Capodanno
   _________________________________

Name:  James A. Capodanno

Date:  August 10, 2001

/s/ Mark A. Schuman
___________________________________
Witness

EDISON SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION, INC.

By /s/ Raymond T. Cushmore
   ________________________________

Name:  Raymond T. Cushmore

Date:  8/10/01

Witness: /s/ Mark A. Schuman
         __________________________

METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By /s/ Shailendra Ghorpade
   ________________________________
Name:  Shailendra Ghorpade,
           Chief Executive Officer

Date:  8/2/01

/s/ James J. Kreig
___________________________________
Witness

                                       2

AMENDMENT NUMBER SIX

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1. The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following Article and Section:

                  "ARTICLE 10 PARTICULAR DIVESTITURES AND SALES

Section 10.1 2001 CONNING CORPORATION SALE: Notwithstanding the terms of
Sections 1.4.05, 1.4.08, 1.4.11, or 1.4.12 of the Plan, an Employee whose
employment with the Company or a Subsidiary is discontinued as a direct result
of the sale (the "Conning Sale") of the equity or assets of Conning Corporation
to Swiss Re or an affiliate of Swiss Re (collectively, "Swiss Re") shall:

      (a)   be deemed to be a Job Elimination Participant and, notwithstanding
            the terms of Section 10.1(b) and regardless of actually being
            granted Severance Pay, be deemed to be "eligible" for Severance Pay
            under the terms of this Plan;

      (b)   be granted Severance Pay in an amount determined by Section 10.l(c)
            and Outplacement Assistance as determined under Section 4.3 as a
            result of the discontinuation referenced in the first paragraph of
            this Section 10.1 if and only if:

            (i)   the Employee accepts a job offer from or continues employment
                  with Swiss Re upon or shortly after the Conning Sale, and is
                  involuntarily

terminated by Swiss Re prior to the six (6) month anniversary
                  of the date the Conning Sale is effectuated or closed,
                  provided, however, that an Employee who has engaged in conduct
                  which would otherwise result in ineligibility under this Plan
                  shall not be granted any Severance Pay; or

            (ii)  the Employee was last employed by the Company in its Law
                  Department and declines to accept a job offer from or to
                  continue employment with Swiss Re upon or shortly after the
                  Conning Sale; and

      (c)   if to be granted Severance Pay under the terms of Section 10.1(b),
            be granted Severance Pay in an amount equal to the amount of
            Severance Pay the Employee would otherwise be granted as a Job
            Elimination Participant under the terms of the Plan."

2. This amendment shall be effective as of June 15, 2001.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has each caused this
amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s)
noted below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   --------------------------------
   Lisa M. Weber
   Executive Vice-President

Date:  6/21/01

/s/ Joanna May
----------------------------------
Witness

                                       2

AMENDMENT NUMBER SEVEN

           TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICER (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1.    The Plan is hereby amended by renumbering the second Section 1.4.20 to be
      1.4.21,and adding the following to Section 1.4.21:

      "(f)MetLife Group, Inc."

3.    This amendment shall be effective as of January 1, 2003.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, each Subsidiary, and
MetLife Group, Inc.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   _______________________________________
         Lisa M. Weber
         Senior Executive Vice-President
         And Chief Administrative Officer

Date:     11/25/02

__________________________________________
Witness

METLIFE GROUP, INC.

By /s/ Richard S. Collins
   _______________________________________
Name:  Richard S. Collins

Date: 1/2/2003

/s/ Mark A. Schuman
__________________________________________
Witness

METLIFE SECURITIES, INC.

By /s/ Richard J. Miller
   _______________________________________
Name: Richard J. Miller

Date:  2/25/03

Date:  2/25/03

/s/ Mark A. Schuman
__________________________________________
Witness

                                       2

METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Barbara Ridge
   ________________________________
Name:  Barbara Ridge

Date:  1/28/2003

/s/ Elsie Bouchard
___________________________________
Witness

EDISON SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION INC.

By /s/ John Chambers
   ________________________________
Name: John Chambers

Date:  3/4/03

___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By /s/ Donnalee A. DeMaio
   ________________________________
Name: Donnalee A. DeMaio

Date:  January 9, 2003

/s/ James J. Kreig
___________________________________
Witness

                                       3

AMENDMENT NUMBER EIGHT TO

             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

      1. The Plan is hereby amended by adding the following article, sections,
      and appendix:

                          ARTICLE 11. CHANGE OF CONTROL

      Section 11.1. Definitions: The terms defined below shall have the
      following meanings for purposes of this Plan.

            Section 11.1.01. A "Change of Control" shall be deemed to have
            occurred if:

                  (a) any Person acquires "beneficial ownership" (within the
                  meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of
                  1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), directly or indirectly, of
                  securities of MetLife, Inc. representing 25% or more of the
                  combined Voting Power of MetLife, Inc.'s securities;

                  (b) within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors
                  of MetLife, Inc. at the beginning of such period (the
                  "Incumbent Directors") shall cease to constitute at least a
                  majority of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the
                  "Board") or the board of directors of any successor to
                  MetLife, Inc.; provided, however, that any director elected or
                  nominated for election to the Board of Directors of MetLife,
                  Inc. by a majority of the Incumbent Directors then still in
                  office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for
                  purposes of this subsection 15(b);

                  (c) the stockholders of MetLife, Inc. approve a merger,
                  consolidation, share exchange, division, sale or other
                  disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of
                  MetLife, Inc. which is consummated (a "Corporate Event"), and
                  immediately following the consummation of which the
                  stockholders of MetLife, Inc. immediately prior to such
                  Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a
                  majority of the Voting Power of (1) in the case of a merger or
                  consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (2) in
                  the case of a share exchange, the acquiring corporation, or
                  (3) in the case of a division or a sale or other disposition
                  of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation
                  which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event,
                  holds more than 25% of the consolidated assets of the MetLife,
                  Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

                  (d) any other event occurs which the Board of Directors of
                  MetLife, Inc. declares to be a Change of Control.

            Section 11.1.02. For purposes of this Article, including the
            definition of Change of Control in Section 11.1.01:

(a) "Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
                  Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as supplemented by
                  Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any
                  group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange
                  Act); provided, however, that "Person" shall not include (i)
                  MetLife, Inc. or any Affiliate of MetLife, Inc., (ii) the
                  MetLife Policyholder Trust (and any person(s) who would
                  otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the
                  power to control the voting of the shares held by that trust),
                  or (iii) any employee benefit plan (including an employee
                  stock ownership plan) sponsored by MetLife, Inc. or any
                  Affiliate of MetLife, Inc.

                  (b) "Voting Power" shall mean such number of Voting Securities
                  as shall enable the holders thereof to cast all the votes
                  which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a
                  company, and "Voting Securities" shall mean all securities
                  entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual election of
                  directors of a company.

                  (c) "Affiliate" shall mean any corporation, partnership,
                  limited liability company, trust or other entity which
                  directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
                  controls, or is controlled by, MetLife, Inc. (which definition
                  shall apply for this purpose, rather than the definition in
                  Section 1.4.01 of the Plan).

            Section 11.1.03. "Change of Control Participant" shall mean any
            Employee who prior to the second anniversary of a Change of Control:

                  (a) is involuntarily terminated from employment for any reason
                  other than solely for Gross Cause; or

                  (b) suffers a Constructive Termination.

            Provided, however, that no employee who has entered into a written
            employment contract or Employment Continuation Agreement with
            MetLife, Inc., the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate effective
            at the time of the employee's termination of employment shall be a
            Change of Control Participant. For purposes of determining who is a
            Change of Control Participant, the Company or Subsidiary shall not
            conclusively determine the classification of Employee in its sole
            and absolute discretion.

            Section 11.1.04. "Constructive Termination" shall mean a voluntary
            termination of employment by an Employee within ten (10) business
            days after any of the following actions by the Company, Subsidiary,
            or person acting on behalf of either:

                  (a) requiring the Employee to be based as his/her regular or
                  customary place employment at any office or location more than
                  50 miles from the location at which the Employee performed his
                  duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, or in a
                  state other than the one in which the Employee performed his
                  duties immediately prior to the Change of

                                        2

Control, in each case except for travel reasonably required in
                  the performance of the employee's responsibilities;

                  (b) reducing the Employee's base salary below the rate in
                  effect at the time of a Change of Control; or

                  (c) failing to pay the Employee's base salary, other wages, or
                  employment-related benefits as required by law.

            Failure by the Employee to voluntarily terminate employment within
            ten (10) business days of the occurrence of any event described in
            this definition shall not waive the Employee's right to voluntary
            terminate employment as a Constructive Discharge within ten (10)
            business days of any subsequent event described in this definition.

            Section 11.1.05. "Gross Cause" shall mean:

                  (a) the Employee's conviction or plea of nolo contendere to a
                  felony; or

                  (b) an act of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Employee's
                  part which results or is intended to result in material damage
                  to the Company's or Subsidiary's business or reputation.

            Section 11.1.06. "Change of Control Separation Agreement" shall mean
            an agreement in the form of Appendix B to this Plan with the exact
            amount of Change of Control Severance Pay, as determined by the
            terms of this Plan, inserted where indicated. The Plan Administrator
            may, however, change the return address indicated in Appendix B.

            Section 11.1.07. "Change of Control Severance Pay" shall mean cash
            in at least the amount of Severance Pay as determined by Section
            1.4.20 for a Job Elimination Participant; provided, however, that
            the Company shall not have the power to exercise any discretion to
            pay any lesser amount. Solely for purposes of determining Change of
            Control Severance Pay:

                  (a) "Salary," as used for purposes of determining "Equivalent
                  Week's Salary," shall mean at least the Employee's base salary
                  immediately prior to the Change of Control, excluding
                  overtime, premium pay, incentive compensation, and bonus
                  payments paid to the Employee by the Company or Subsidiary for
                  services rendered, before any payroll deductions, including
                  taxes;

                  (b) "Service" shall be determined as provided by Section
                  1.4.19 of the Plan; provided however that the MetLife Options
                  Plus Summary Plan Description Book (or the applicable summary
                  plan description of the successor plan to MetLife Options,
                  should Metlife Options be replaced with a successor plan) in
                  force immediately prior to the Special Period and the
                  Company's Continuous Service Date Policy in force immediately
                  prior to the Change of Control shall be used for that purpose.

            Section 11.1.08. "Change of Control Outplacement Assistance" shall
            mean an outplacement assistance program of at least the duration,
            quality, and value as was

                                        3

routinely provided to those Participants who were provided with such
            a program prior to the Change of Control.

            Section 11.1.09. "Excise Tax" shall mean the tax imposed under
            Section 4999 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended
            (or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed).

      Section 11.2 Amendment and Termination of the Plan after a Change of
      Control. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, this Plan shall
      neither be terminated, nor shall this Plan be amended, nor shall the
      Company or Subsidiary cease to be covered by this Plan, upon a Change of
      Control and until the second anniversary of that Change of Control.

      Section 11.3 Purpose of the Plan. Upon a Change of Control, and until the
      second anniversary of that Change of Control, the purpose of the Plan
      shall be deemed to be "A Plan to Provide for the Payment of Special
      Severance Pay and Other Benefits to Certain Employees Whose Employment
      Terminates."

      Section 11.4 Eligibility for Special Severance Pay and Special
      Outplacement Assistance After a Change of Control. Notwithstanding any
      other provision of the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall offer a Change
      of Control Agreement to each Change of Control Participant within ten (10)
      business days of the termination of a Change of Control Participant's
      employment (as determined by this Article), and shall have no discretion
      to decline to do so or to offer any amount of severance pay in the Change
      of Control Agreement lower than the Change of Control Severance Pay
      provided by the terms of this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall pay
      Change of Control Severance Pay and provide Special Outplacement
      Assistance to each Special Participant who executes a Change of Control
      Agreement that becomes final, according to the terms of the Change of
      Control Separation Agreement.

      Section 11.5 Excise Tax Avoidance. Notwithstanding any of the other terms
      of this Plan, in the event that any amount or benefit paid or distributed
      to a Change of Control Participant pursuant to this Plan or Change of
      Control Separation Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits
      otherwise paid or distributed to such Change of Control Participant by
      MetLife, Inc. or any Affiliate, would be an "excess parachute payment" as
      defined in Section 280G of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as
      amended, and would thereby subject the Change of Control Participant to
      the Excise Tax, and the Change of Control Participant is not a party to a
      Compensation Protection Agreement, then the amounts payable to the Change
      of Control Participant under this Plan and Change of Control Separation
      Agreement shall be reduced (but not below zero) to the maximum amount
      which may be paid without the Change of Control Participant becoming
      subject to the Excise Tax. If the Change of Control Participant receives
      reduced payments and benefits by reason of this Section 11.5 and it is
      established pursuant to a final determination of a court or an Internal
      Revenue Service proceeding that the Change of Control Participant could
      have received a greater amount without subjecting the Change of Control
      Participant to the Excise Tax, then the Change of Control Participant
      shall be paid the aggregate additional amount which could have been paid
      without subjecting the Change of Control Participant to the Excise Tax,

                                        4

together with interest on such amount at the applicable Federal rate (as
      defined in Section 1274(d) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as
      amended) from the original payment due date to the date of actual payment
      (without the necessity of executing a new Change of Control Separation
      Agreement) promptly thereafter.

      Section 11.6 Eligibility for Other Benefits After a Change of Control. A
      Special Participant shall be considered a Participant under the Plan for
      any and all purposes under the Plan and other employee benefit plans of
      any Company or Subsidiary.

      Section 11.7 Restricted Powers of the Plan Administrator. Upon a Change of
      Control, and until the second anniversary of that Change of Control:

            (a) the Plan Administrator shall not have the power to interpret and
            construe the provisions of the Plan in its discretion, nor have any
            of its powers or rights under Section 6.4 of this Plan, nor have the
            power to decide any disputes that may arise as to the rights of
            Employees to the benefits under the Plan or other employee benefit
            plans to the extent those rights depend on rights under this Plan;

            (b) no provision of this Plan shall entitle the Plan Administrator
            to standard of legal review of any of its decisions or
            determinations other than a plenary, de novo standard, or be
            construed to suggest that such standard of review is appropriate

            (c) the Plan Administrator's decisions and determinations during a
            Special Period shall be subject to a plenary, de novo standard of
            legal review; and

            (d) the Plan Administrator shall not have the power to adopt any new
            rules and procedures, or modify or terminate such rules and
            procedures as were adopted and were in force immediately prior to a
            Special Period.

      Section 11.8 Change of Control Claims Review Procedure. With regard to
      claims submitted on account of a termination of employment on or after a
      Change of Control and prior to the second anniversary of that Change of
      Control:

            (a) the period for Plan Administrator notification of claim
            determination shall be ten (10) business days from receipt of the
            claim, rather than the period otherwise provided in Section 5.5(a);

            (b) the extended period for Plan Administrator notification of claim
            determination shall be thirty (30) days, rather than the period
            otherwise provided in Section 5.5(a);

            (c) the period for Plan Administrator notification of decision on
            review of a claim shall be ten (10) business days from receipt of
            the claim, rather than the period otherwise provided in Section
            5.5(b);

            (d) the extended period for Plan Administrator notification of
            decision on review of a claim shall be thirty (30) days, rather than
            the period otherwise provided in Section 5.5(b).

      Section 11.9 Limitation of Subsequent Amendments or Termination. Upon a
      Change of Control, no subsequent amendment or termination of this Plan
      shall diminish a Change of

                                        5

Control Participant's rights under this Plan. No amendment or termination
      of this Plan after a Change of Control shall amend or affect either this
      Section 11.9 or Section 6.3 of this Plan.

      Section 11.10 Recovery with Interest. Any Change of Control Participant
      who is a prevailing party in any suit to recover unpaid Change of Control
      Severance Pay under this Plan, to enforce the terms of this Plan, or for
      breach of a Change of Control Separation Agreement shall be entitled, as
      liquidated damages and not as a penalty, to pre-judgment and post-judgment
      interest compounded daily from the date of the breach of duty or other
      wrong and until payment is made in full, on any monies due as damages or
      otherwise a result of such breach of duty or wrong. The interest rate for
      such purpose shall be the prime rate (as determined by the rate or average
      rate published by the Wall Street Journal for the majority of major banks
      on the date of the breach or wrongful action or failure to act) plus two
      per cent (2.00%).

                                       6

2. This amendment shall become effective immediately upon its execution.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and each Subsidiary have caused this amendment
to be executed by an officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s) noted
below the officer's signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Lisa M. Weber
   ________________________________
            Lisa M. Weber
    Senior Executive Vice-President
   and Chief Administrative Officer

Date:  8/8/03

___________________________________
Witness

METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ Barbara Ridge
   ________________________________

Name:  Barbara Ridge

Date:  9/10/2003

Elsie Bouchard
___________________________________
Witness

7
 
METLIFE SECURITIES, INC.

By /s/ Craig W. Markham
   ________________________________

Name:  Craig W. Markham

Date:  12/21/2003

/s/ Mary Tripp
___________________________________
Witness

METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By /s/ Donnalee A. DeMaio
   ________________________________

Name:  Donnalee A. DeMaio,
       Vice President and Chief
          Financial Officer

Date:  September 11, 2003

/s/ James J. Kreig
___________________________________
Witness

8

METLIFE GROUP, INC.

By /s/ Debra Capolarello
   ________________________________

Name: Debra Capolarello

Date: 8/21/03

/s/ R.L. Taylor
___________________________________
Witness

                                       9

APPENDIX B TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS
                SEPARATION AGREEMENT, WAIVER, AND GENERAL RELEASE

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding which has been
reached relative to the cessation of your (___) employment with MetLife, Inc. or
an affiliate thereof, as the case may be (such employer, "MetLife"). It is fully
agreed and understood as follows:

      1. You agree that you release and discharge MetLife, its subsidiaries, and
its affiliates, including but not limited to MetLife, Inc. (collectively, "the
Company") from any and all claims, demands, actions, liability, damages, back
pay, attorneys' fees, or rights of any and every kind or nature which you have
against the Company arising out of or related to the discontinuance of your
employment by MetLife, including claims arising under the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act, as amended. You agree to waive your rights, if any, under
Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which states "[a] general release
does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist
in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him[/her]
must have mutually affected his[/her] settlement with the debtor," and your
rights, if any, under the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act. This
Agreement does not affect any rights that you may have arising out of events
that occur after you have executed this Agreement.

      2. In consideration for the release set forth in Section 1 of this
Agreement, MetLife, Inc. agrees to (a) pay you the sum of $______ (the
"Severance Pay"), the equivalent of ______ weeks pay at your final base salary
rate (such number of weeks to constitute the "Severance Period"), in a lump sum
(unless MetLife offers you the option of receiving your Severance Pay in
installments and you choose to receive your Severance Pay in that manner); (b)
provide you with outplacement services as described more fully in an exhibit to
this Agreement. These payments and services are in additional to anything of
value to which you are already entitled.

      3. You have forty-five (45) days in which to review this Agreement and
fully consider its terms and the disclosure information that is attached as an
exhibit to this Agreement prior to signing it. You should consult with legal
counsel prior to signing this Agreement (if you live/work in West Virginia, you
may contact the state Bar Association, if you wish, at 1-800-642-3617). You may
accept this Agreement by fully executing it and returning it to MetLife, Inc. at
1 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010 attention: General Counsel by no later than
5:00 p.m. on the forty-fifth (45th) day after your receipt of it. After you have
executed this Agreement, you will have seven (7) days to revoke this Agreement
(except that if you are/were employed in Minnesota you will have fifteen (15)
days to revoke this Agreement), which you may do by indicating your desire to do
so in writing directed to MetLife, Inc. at the above address and attention.
MetLife, Inc. must receive any revocation no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh
(7th) day following the date on which you executed this Agreement (except that
if you are/were employed in Minnesota, MetLife, Inc. must receive your
revocation by 5:00 PM on the fifteenth (15th) day following the date you
executed this Agreement or you must have your revocation postmarked and sent by
certified mail return receipt requested by the fifteenth (15th) day following
the date you executed this Agreement). This Agreement will become effective on
the

eighth (8th) day following your execution of this Agreement (except that if you
are/were employed in Minnesota, this Agreement will become effective on the
sixteenth (16th) date following your execution of this Agreement) (the
"Effective Date"), provided you have not revoked it.

      4. This Agreement may not be changed except in a writing that specifically
references this Agreement and that is signed by you and an officer of MetLife.
Any written stock option agreement into which you may have entered during your
employment with MetLife remains in full force and effect.

I accept this Agreement:

___________________________________
Signature

___________________________________
Name

___________________________________
Date

                                       2

AMENDMENT NUMBER NINE TO
             THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS

The MetLife Plan for Transition Assistance for Officers (the "Plan") is hereby
amended as follows:

1. The Plan is amended by restating in its entirety the following Section:

            SECTION 1.4.03 DATE OF DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT: "Date of
            Discontinuance of Employment" means the date set by the Company or
            Subsidiary as the date the Employee separates from the service of
            the Company or Subsidiary. The Company or Subsidiary reserves the
            right to alter the Date of Discontinuance of Employment at its sole
            and absolute discretion for any reason it deems appropriate.

2. The Plan is amended by restating in its entirety the following Section:

            SECTION 5.4 EFFECT OF DISABILITY OR LEAVE OF ABSENCE PRIOR TO
            DISCONTINUANCE OF EMPLOYMENT: The Company or any Subsidiary may
            determine any Participant's Date of Discontinuance of Employment
            without regard to the Participant's Disability. The Company may, but
            is not required to, offer a Participant a leave of absence prior to
            the Participant's Date of Discontinuance. Nothing in this Section
            shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any
            Subsidiary to determine in its discretion the terms and conditions
            of employment.

3. This amendment will be effective April 1, 2004.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an
officer thereunto duly authorized on the date(s) noted below the officer's
signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

By /s/ James N. Heston
   ________________________________
       James N. Heston
       Senior Vice President
       Human Resources

Date:  September 20, 2004

/s/ Teresa Porochnia
___________________________________
Witness

</EX-10.70>

<EX-10.83>
 16
 y81517exv10w83.htm
 EX-10.83

exv10w83 

Exhibit 10.83

AMENDMENT NUMBER TWENTY-TWO TO  
  THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS  

THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS (the  Plan ) is hereby amended as follows:

1. 
       
     Section 1.4.05(b)(3) of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting the phrase
 Unless the Company or Subsidiary decides otherwise, in its sole and absolute
discretion.  

2. 
       
     Section 1.4.08 of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
follows: 

Discontinuance of Employment Under the Provisions of the Company s
Staffing Adjustment Policy:    Discontinuance of Employment under the
Provisions of the Company s Staffing Adjustment Policy  means the involuntary
cessation of an Employee s employment with the Company or Subsidiary because
of a Job Elimination or a Discontinuation of Employment for Performance. In
addition, the Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute discretion,
deem certain circumstances as voluntarily resigning from the Company or
Subsidiary. Those Employees who voluntarily resign under such deemed
circumstances will not be eligible under the Plan unless the Plan
Administrator determines that under the circumstances the Employee should be
deemed to have been terminated under the Company s Staffing Adjustment Policy.
An Employee may be deemed to have been terminated under this Policy whether
or not the Employee was subject to a Job Elimination.  

3. 
       
     Section 1.4.11 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting the first set of
parentheses and adding a new parenthetical phrase after the word  relocations  to read
as follows:  (where such relocations results in an Employee becoming eligible to
receive benefits under the Company s or a Subsidiary s relocation policy)  and by
adding the phrase  short-term or long-term  before the word  disability . 

4. 
       
     Section 1.4.19(a) of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following
phrase immediately following the fourth comma therein:  and such reemployment occurs
after the full number of weeks used to determine the amount of such previous Severance
Pay under the Plan, . 

5. 
       
     Section 3.2 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the phrase  or its
designate  at the end thereof. 

6. 
       
     Section 4.1 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting  Company or Subsidiary 
the first time it appears in the second sentence thereof and replacing it with  Plan
Administrator  and by restating the final sentence thereof to read as follows:  The
Company or Subsidiary, or where appropriate, the Plan Administrator, will determine,
on a case-by-case basis, whether a Participant is entitled to Severance Pay and the
amount thereof.  

7. 
       
     For purpose of clarifying the Plan s long standing practice, Section 4.1 of
the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new sentence at the end thereof to
read as follows:  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4.1 to the
contrary, the Compensation Committees of the Boards of Directors of the Company and
MetLife, Inc. must approve the amount and payment of any Severance Pay under the Plan
made to an Employee who is a member of the Executive Group of the Company or MetLife,
Inc. on such Employee s Date of Discontinuance  

8. 
       
     Section 6.4 of the Plan is hereby amended by deleting  Company or Subsidiary 
with  Plan Administrator.  

9. 
       
     This amendment is effective as of November 1, 2009. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this amendment to be executed by an officer thereunto
duly authorized on the date noted below the officer s signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By:

/s/ Lynne E DiStasio 

Name/Title:

Lynne E DiStasio, Vice President

Date:

December 21, 2009 

Witness:

/s/ Lucida Plummer 

2 

</EX-10.83>

<EX-10.84>
 17
 y81517exv10w84.htm
 EX-10.84

exv10w84 

Exhibit 10.84 

METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS 

Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010   

METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE FOR OFFICERS  
(PLAN TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF SEVERANCE PAY AND OTHER 
BENEFITS TO CERTAIN OFFICERS WHO ARE INVOLUNTARILY DISCONTINUED.)

ARTICLE 1    THE PLAN: EFFECTIVE DATE: PLAN YEAR: DEFINITIONS  

1.1    The Plan   :  This plan shall be known as the MetLife Plan for Transition Assistance for
Officers (hereafter called the  Plan ).

1.2    Effective Date   :  The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 2000. The Plan was
most recently amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2010.

1.3    Plan Year   :  The Plan Year shall be a calendar year.

1.4    Definitions   :  Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined below shall
have the following meanings for all purposes of the Plan.

1.4.01    Affiliate   :   Affiliate  means any corporation which is in the same controlled
group of corporations, within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, as the
Company and any other trade or business which is part of the same commonly controlled group of
trades or businesses, within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, as the
Company.

1.4.02    Company   :   Company  means the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

1.4.03    Date of Discontinuance of Employment   :   Date of Discontinuance of Employment 
means the date set by the Company or Subsidiary as the date the Employee separates from the service
of the Company or Subsidiary. The Company or Subsidiary reserves the right to alter the Date of
Discontinuance of Employment at its sole and absolute discretion for any reason it deems
appropriate.

1.4.04    Disability   :   Disability  means that the employee is disabled as defined in the
 Disability  section of the MetLife Options Plus Summary Plan Description Book and is

2 

receiving benefits under either the Metropolitan Short Term Disability Plan or Long Term Disability
Plan (or the successor plan(s) to such plans).

1.4.05    Discontinuance of Employment   : 

(a)  Discontinuance of Employment  means a Discontinuance of Employment Under the
Provisions of the Staffing Adjustment Policy.

(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, and without limitation, the following shall not
constitute a Discontinuance of Employment:

(1) The transfer of an Employee to or from the Company, to or from the Subsidiary or
to or from a MetLife Enterprise Affiliate;

(2) The transfer of an Employee to, or the hire of an Employee by, an employer other
than a MetLife Enterprise Affiliate as a result of a sale, merger, acquisition, outsourcing
of a function or similar transaction, provided the Employee continues to perform the same
or similar duties immediately following such transfer or hire. The determination of
whether an employee continues to perform the same or similar duties immediately following
such transfer shall be exclusively determined by the Company or Subsidiary; or

(3) The voluntary cessation of employment with the Company or Subsidiary prior to the
Date of Discontinuance of Employment;

(4) The termination of employment of an Employee who has entered into a written
employment contract or severance agreement with the Company or a MetLife Enterprise
Affiliate; or

(5) A Discontinuance of Employment for Cause.

3 

1.4.06    Discontinuance of Employment for Cause:     Discontinuance of Employment for Cause 
means the involuntary cessation of an Employee s employment with the Company or Subsidiary because
the Employee has

(a) engaged in a serious infraction of Company or Subsidiary policy, theft of Company or
Subsidiary property or services or other dishonest conduct otherwise injurious to the
interests of the Company or Subsidiary, each as determined solely by the Company or
Subsidiary; or

(b) demonstrated unacceptable lateness or absenteeism.

1.4.07    Discontinuance of Employment for Performance   :   Discontinuance of Employment for
Performance  means the involuntary cessation of an Employee s employment with the Company or
Subsidiary because the Employee has failed to meet standards of job performance despite the
Employee s good faith and diligent efforts to perform all aspects of the Employee s job, including
all performance improvement assignments and expectations, each as determined solely by the Company
or a Subsidiary in its discretion, or, in the event of a claim, by the Plan Administrator in its
discretion.

1.4.08    Discontinuance of Employment Under the Provisions of the Company s Staffing Adjustment
Policy:    Discontinuance of Employment under the Provisions of the Company s Staffing
Adjustment Policy  means the involuntary cessation of an Employee s employment with the Company or
Subsidiary because of a Job Elimination or a Discontinuation of Employment for Performance. In
addition, the Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute discretion, deem certain
circumstances as voluntarily resigning from the Company or Subsidiary. Those Employees who
voluntarily resign under such deemed circumstances will not be eligible under the Plan unless the
Plan Administrator determines that under the circumstances

4 

the Employee should be deemed to have been terminated under the Company s Staffing Adjustment
Policy. An Employee may be deemed to have been terminated under this Policy whether or not the
Employee was subject to a Job Elimination.

1.4.09    Employee   :   Employee  means anyone who:

(a) is employed by the Company or a Subsidiary and compensated in or from the United
States,

(b) is either:

(1) a regular full-time employee, or

(2) a regular part-time employee whose regularly scheduled annual service is 1,000 hours or
more in a 12-month period,

(c) is any one or more of (1) an officer of the Company, MetLife Group, Inc., Metropolitan
Property and Casualty Insurance Company, or MetLife Bank, National Association; or (2)
anyone whose compensation is classified in the Company s or Subsidiary s employee
compensation classification system in an officer or officer-equivalent grade level, in each
case as determined by the Company or Subsidiary in its discretion, or, in the event of a
claim, by the Plan Administrator in its discretion,

(d) is not a temporary employee,

(e) has not received a  Notice of Continued Eligibility  under the terms of the MetLife
Severance Pay Plan for Officers, as amended (and whose employment is discontinued on or
prior to December 31, 2000),

(f) is not a leased employee within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code  414(n), and

5 

(g) is not performing services for the Company or a Subsidiary under an agreement in which
such individual acknowledges that he or she is an independent contractor and that he or she
is not entitled to participate in the Company s or Subsidiary s employee benefit plans, or
under an agreement entered into between the Company or a Subsidiary and some other person
(other than a MetLife Enterprise Affiliate), in either case notwithstanding the fact that a
regulatory body or court determines that such an individual is a common law employee.

The classification of Employees will be conclusively determined by the Company or Subsidiary in its
sole and absolute discretion.

1.4.10    Equivalent Week s Salary   :   Equivalent Week s Salary  means the amount of annual
Salary divided by fifty-two (52).

1.4.11    Job Elimination:    Job Elimination  means the Company s or Subsidiary s
determination that an Employee s position has been or will be eliminated because of a Company or
Subsidiary staffing adjustment or other organizational change, expense reduction considerations,
office closings or relocations (where such relocations results in an Employee becoming eligible to
receive benefits under the Company s or a Subsidiary s relocation policy) including but not limited
to adjustments in the number of staff in a department or unit or the elimination of all or some of
the functions of a department or unit, in which the Employee will not be replaced by another person
in the same position, except where the Employee was, as of or immediately before the Date of
Discontinuance of Employment, on a leave of absence or otherwise in inactive status, including but
not limited to periods for which short-term or long-term disability benefits are paid, for a
consecutive period of more than one year (i.e., does not return from leave or inactive status by
the first anniversary of the beginning of the leave of

6 

inactive status) and is not returning immediately upon the conclusion of either (a) leave under the
Family and Medical Leave Act or other law providing legally-protected leave, or (b) leave granted
by the Company or Subsidiary as a reasonable accommodation of medical limitations . 

1.4.12    Job Elimination Participant   :   Job Elimination Adjustment Participant  means any
Employee who has received a Notice of Discontinuance and whose employment is terminated because of
a Job Elimination.

1.4.13    Notice of Discontinuance   :   Notice of Discontinuance  means written notice by the
Company or Subsidiary to an Employee which advises such Employee of his or her Date of
Discontinuance of Employment.

1.4.14    Outplacement Assistance   :   Outplacement Assistance  means such program for
assistance with career planning and strategy development and job placement the content and terms of
which are determined solely by the Company or Subsidiary at its discretion.

1.4.15    Participant   :   Participant  means either a Job Elimination Participant or a
Performance Participant.

1.4.16    Performance Participant   :   Performance Participant  means any Employee who has
received a Notice of Discontinuance and whose employment is terminated because of Discontinuance of
Employment for Performance; provided, however, that the Company or Subsidiary may in its sole
discretion deem any Employee whose employment is terminated because of Discontinuance of Employment
for Performance to be a Performance Participant.

1.4.17    Salary   :   Salary  means the Employee s base salary as of the Date of Discontinuance
of Employment, excluding overtime, premium pay, incentive compensation, and

7 

bonus payments paid to the Employee by the Company or Subsidiary for services rendered, before any
payroll deductions, including taxes.

1.4.18    Separation Agreement   :   Separation Agreement  means an agreement which includes a
general release duly executed in favor of the Company and/or Subsidiary in the form prescribed by
the Company or Subsidiary which has become final and irrevocable in accordance with the provisions
of the Separation Agreement and applicable law. Such Separation Agreement may include, without
limitation, an acknowledgment that neither the Company nor Subsidiary, nor any of their
subsidiaries or affiliates shall have any obligation to rehire the Participant at any time.

1.4.19    Service   :   Service  means the whole number of the Employee s completed years of
employment with the Company, Subsidiary and/or Affiliate. Completed years of employment will be
computed based on the anniversaries of the date the Employee was first employed by the Company,
Subsidiary, and/or Affiliate and ending on the Date of Discontinuance of Employment. However, if
the Employee incurred any break in service, the period of Service will be computed as illustrated
in the  Summary Plan Description of the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States
Employees. 

Service  shall also mean the whole number of the Employee s completed years of employment
with the following entities or any of such entities  affiliates immediately prior to the closing of
the acquisition of all or a portion of the stock or assets of such entities by the Company,
Subsidiary or an Affiliate, as reflected in the records of such acquired entities immediately prior
to such closing:

(i) 
       
     EverBank Reverse Mortgage, LLC. 

8 

(ii) 
       
     First Horizon Home Loans, an operating division
of First Tennessee Bank National Association. 

(iii) 
       
     SafeGuard Health Plans, Inc., a California Corporation. 

(a) In the event that severance pay was previously paid to an Employee by the Company,
Subsidiary, or an Affiliate under this Plan or a similar plan of the Company, a Subsidiary
or Affiliate, and such reemployment occurs after the full number of weeks used to determine
the amount of such previous Severance Pay under the Plan, completed years of employment
will be computed from the date the Employee was first reemployed by the Company,
Subsidiary, or Affiliate after the cessation of employment for which prior severance pay
was paid. For purposes of the break in service rules set forth in the Summary Plan
Description of the Metropolitan Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees, in no
event shall any Service of an Employee that was rendered prior to the cessation of
employment for which prior severance pay was paid be counted.

(b) If the Employee is a regular full-time Employee with a period of employment with the
Company, Subsidiary, or Affiliate as a part-time Employee, or a regular part-time Employee
with a period of service as a regular full-time Employee, the Employee will be given credit
for part-time Service in accordance with the Summary Plan Description of the Metropolitan
Life Retirement Plan for United States Employees .

1.4.20    Severance Pay   :   Severance Pay  means the Participant s Equivalent Week s Salary
multiplied by the sum of twenty-eight (28) plus the Participant s Service,  provided,
however , that if the sum is greater than fifty-two (52), the sum shall be deemed to be
fifty-two (52),  and provided further, however , that if the Participant is a Performance
Participant, the sum shall be further divided by two (2).

9 

1.4.21    Subsidiary   :   Subsidiary  means the following Affiliate(s) of the Company:

(a) Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company.

(b) MetLife Bank, National Association.

(c) MetLife Group, Inc.

1.4.22    MetLife Enterprise Affiliate   :   MetLife Enterprise Affiliate  means
MetLife, Inc. any Affiliate, or any  affiliate  of MetLife, Inc. as that term is
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, including any corporation,
partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other entity in which
MetLife, Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, at least fifty percent (50%) of the total
combined number of all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual
election of directors of the company, or of the capital interests or profits interest
of such partnership or entity.

10 

ARTICLE 2    FUNDING  

2.1    Funding   :  The Plan is an unfunded employee benefit plan established by the Company
and the benefit payable under the Plan to Employees shall be paid out of the general assets of the
Company or a Subsidiary that formerly employed the Employee.

11 

ARTICLE 3    FIDUCIARIES  

3.1    Named Fiduciary   :  The Named Fiduciary of the Plan with authority to control and
manage the operation and administration of the Plan is the Company.

3.2    Plan Administrator   :  The Plan Administrator is the Company or its designate.

3.3    Delegation of Responsibilities   :  The Company, as Named Fiduciary of the Plan, hereby
designates the Chief Executive Officer or his designate to carry out all of the Company s
fiduciary responsibilities under the Plan.

3.4    Powers of the Plan Administrator   :  In carrying out the fiduciary responsibilities
delegated to it, the Plan Administrator shall have the power to:

(a) Interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan, decide any disputes that may arise
as to the rights of Employees to the benefit under the Plan and, in general, direct the
administration of the Plan in accordance with its terms.

(b) Adopt such rules and procedures as the Plan Administrator may deem necessary or
appropriate in the exercise of its authority and discharge of its obligations under the
Plan.

(c) Delegate to one or more other persons such administrative obligations as it deems
appropriate.

(d) Do all other acts, take all other proceedings and exercise such other rights and
privileges, though not specifically mentioned herein, as the Plan Administrator may deem
necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the Plan in compliance with
applicable law.

3.5    Service of Legal Process   :  The Plan Administrator is designated the Plan s agent for
service of legal process.

12 

ARTICLE 4    PLAN BENEFITS  

4.1    Severance Pay   :  The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute discretion,
grant Severance Pay to a Participant as determined under the terms of this Plan, provided that the
Participant has entered into a Separation Agreement. The Plan Administrator may, in its sole and
absolute discretion, grant Severance Pay in excess of or less than the amount reflected in this
Plan taking all pertinent facts and circumstances into consideration, including but not limited to
any amount to which the Company or Subsidiary offers or pays to a Participant as a result of the
Participant s Discontinuance of Employment pursuant to any applicable law. The Company or
Subsidiary, or where appropriate, the Plan Administrator, will determine, on a case-by-case basis,
whether a Participant is entitled to Severance Pay and the amount thereof.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 4.1 to the contrary, the Compensation
Committees of the Boards of Directors of the Company and MetLife, Inc. must approve the amount and
payment of any Severance Pay under the Plan made to an Employee who is a member of the Executive
Group of the Company or MetLife, Inc. on such Employee s Date of Discontinuance.

4.2    Payment of Severance Pay:   If a Participant s Separation Agreement is final by the
Payment Deadline, Severance Pay and any other amounts offered to the Participant contingent on a
final Separation Agreement (other than as provided in an award agreement under the MetLife, Inc.
2005 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan) shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum after
the Participant s Separation Agreement is final, and on or before the Payment Deadline. If a
Participant s Separation Agreement is final after the Payment Deadline, Severance Pay shall be paid
in cash to the Participant in a lump sum in the calendar year specified in the Separation
Agreement. For this purpose, the  Payment Deadline  shall
be March 15 of the

13 

calendar year after the earlier of (i) the date the Separation Agreement was offered to the
Participant, (ii) the Participant s Date of Discontinuance of Employment, or (iii) the date of the
Participant s separation from service determined under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, to the
extent that date differs from the Participant s Date of Discontinuance. If a Participant s
Separation Agreement is final, amounts offered to the Participant contingent on a final Separation
Agreement as provided in an award agreement under the MetLife, Inc. 2005 Stock and Incentive
Compensation Plan shall be paid to the Participant at the time prescribed in such award agreement.

4.3    Outplacement Assistance   :  The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, grant Outplacement Assistance to a Participant, provided that the Participant has
granted a Separation Agreement. The Company or Subsidiary may, in its sole and absolute
discretion, grant Outplacement Assistance in excess of or less than the amount reflected in this
Plan taking all pertinent facts and circumstances into consideration. The Company or Subsidiary
will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether a Participant is entitled to Outplacement
Assistance and the nature and duration thereof.

4.4    Rehire   :  If a Participant is reemployed in a position with the Company or a MetLife
Enterprise Affiliate comparable to the Participant s last position with the Company or a MetLife
Enterprise Affiliate within one year of the Date of Discontinuance of Employment, the Company or
MetLife Enterprise Affiliate may, in its sole and absolute discretion, require the Participant to
repay a prorated portion of the Severance Pay received.

14 

ARTICLE 5    OPERATION OF THE PLAN  

5.1    Effect of Severance Pay on Other Benefit Determinations   :  Receipt by the Participant
of Notice Period Pay, Severance Pay, or Outplacement Assistance shall have no effect on the
determination of benefits under any Employee benefit plan, except as provided in those respective
plans. In no event will any Participant be entitled to receive any pay or benefits under both this
Plan and any other severance plan maintained by the Company, Subsidiary, or Affiliate in connection
with the same Discontinuance of Employment.

5.2    Effect of Death Prior to Date of Discontinuance of Employment   :  If death of a
Participant occurs prior to the established Date of Discontinuance of Employment, no benefits shall
be payable under the Plan.

5.3    Death of Participant Subsequent to Date of Discontinuance of Employment   :  If a
Participant dies after Date of Discontinuance of Employment, the balance of any Severance Pay due
the Participant will be paid to the Participant s estate as soon after the Participant s death as
may be practicable.

5.4    Effect of Disability or Leave of Absence Prior to Discontinuance of Employment:   The
Company or any Subsidiary may determine any Participant s Date of Discontinuance of Employment
without regard to the Participant s Disability. The Company may, but is not required to, offer a
Participant a leave of absence prior to the Participant s Date of Discontinuance of Employment.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to
determine in its discretion the terms and conditions of employment.

15 

5.5    Claims and Review Procedure   : 

(a)  Claims Procedure.  If any person believes he/she is being denied any rights or
benefits under this Plan, such person may, in writing, request reconsideration from the
Plan Administrator. If any such claim is wholly or partially denied, the Plan
Administrator will notify such person of its decision in writing. Such notification will
be written in a manner calculated to be understood by such person and will contain (i)
specific reasons for the denial, (ii) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions,
(iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for such person to
perfect such claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary and
(iv) information as to the steps to be taken if the person wishes to submit a request for
review. Such notification will be given within 90 days after the claim is received by the
Plan Administrator (or within 180 days, if special circumstances require an extension of
time for processing the claim, and if written notice of such extension and circumstances is
given to such person within the initial 90 day period).

(b)  Review Procedure.  Within 60 days after the date on which a person receives a
written notice of a denied claim (or, if applicable, within 60 days after the date on which
such denial is considered to have occurred) such person (or a duly authorized
representative) may (i) file a written request with the Plan Administrator for a review of
the denied claim and of pertinent documents and (ii) submit written issues and comments to
the Plan Administrator. The Plan Administrator will notify such person of its decision in
writing. Such Notification will be written in a manner calculated to be understood by such
person and will contain specific reasons for the decision as well as specific references to
pertinent Plan provisions. The decision on review will be made within 60

16 

days after the request for review is received by the Plan Administrator (or within 120
days, if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the request,
such as an election by the Plan Administrator to hold a hearing, and if written notice of
such extension and circumstances is given to such person within the initial 60 day period).
If the decision on review is not made within such period, the claim will be considered
denied.

(c) Any person must exhaust the claims and review process described in this Section 5.5 of
the Plan as a condition of bringing legal action under or related to the Plan. No claim
for rights or benefits under the Plan, or otherwise arising under the Plan, will be valid
if it brought more than six (6) months after the end of the year in which that person s
Date of Discontinuance of Employment occurred. No suit to recover benefits under this Plan
shall be brought more than six (6) months following the exhaustion of the claims and review
process described in this Plan.

17 

ARTICLE 6    AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN  

6.1    Amendment   :  The Company may amend or terminate this Plan or any benefit or coverage
thereunder at any time by means of a written instrument executed by a person authorized by the
Company, subject to the limitations of this section. Except as hereinafter stated, the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company or his designate is authorized to amend this Plan by formal
action. Any amendment or group of amendments adopted on the same date, which would increase or
decrease the annual cost of Plan benefits for Participants by $10 million or more shall be adopted
by formal action of the Board of Directors of the Company.

6.2    Termination of Plan   :  The Company reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any
time. This Plan shall not automatically terminate on any date.

6.3    Limitation on Amendment and Termination of Plan   :  If an eligible Participant has
granted a Separation Agreement, no Amendment or Termination of this Plan by the Company shall
diminish the Participant s rights obtained pursuant to this Plan.

6.4    Construction of Plan Provisions   :  The Plan Administrator shall have full and complete
sole and absolute discretion to interpret and construe all Plan provisions, and such interpretation
shall be final and binding on all Employees.

18 

ARTICLE 7    CHANGE OF CONTROL  

7.1.    Definitions   :  The terms defined below shall have the following meanings for purposes
of this Plan.

7.1.01.  A      Change of Control      shall be deemed to have occurred if:

(a) any Person acquires  beneficial ownership  (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ( Exchange Act )), directly or indirectly, of
securities of MetLife, Inc. representing 25% or more of the combined Voting Power of
MetLife, Inc. s securities;

(b) within any 24-month period, the persons who were directors of MetLife, Inc. at the
beginning of such period (the  Incumbent Directors ) shall cease to constitute at least a
majority of the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. (the  Board ) or the board of directors
of any successor to MetLife, Inc.; provided, however, that any director elected or
nominated for election to the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. by a majority of the
Incumbent Directors then still in office shall be deemed to be an Incumbent Director for
purposes of this subsection 7(b);

(c) the stockholders of MetLife, Inc. approve a merger, consolidation, share exchange,
division, sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of MetLife,
Inc. which is consummated (a  Corporate Event ), and immediately following the consummation
of which the stockholders of MetLife, Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Event do not
hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the Voting Power of (1) in the case of a merger
or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation, (2) in the case of a share
exchange, the acquiring corporation, or (3) in the case of a division or a

19 

sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation
which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than 25% of the
consolidated assets of the MetLife, Inc. immediately prior to such Corporate Event; or

(d) any other event occurs which the Board of Directors of MetLife, Inc. declares to be a
Change of Control.

7.1.02.    Definitions   .  For purposes of this Article, including the definition of Change of
Control in Section 7.1.01:

(a)  Person  shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act,
as supplemented by Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, and shall include any group (within the
meaning of Rule 13d-5(b) under the Exchange Act); provided, however, that  Person  shall not
include (i) MetLife, Inc. or any Affiliate of MetLife, Inc., (ii) the MetLife Policyholder Trust
(and any person(s) who would otherwise be described herein solely by reason of having the power to
control the voting of the shares held by that trust), or (iii) any employee benefit plan (including
an employee stock ownership plan) sponsored by MetLife, Inc. or any Affiliate of MetLife, Inc.

(b)  Voting Power  shall mean such number of Voting Securities as shall enable the holders thereof
to cast all the votes which could be cast in an annual election of directors of a company, and
 Voting Securities  shall mean all securities entitling the holders thereof to vote in an annual
election of directors of a company.

(c)  Affiliate  shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other
entity which directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled
by, MetLife, Inc. (which definition shall apply for this purpose, rather than the definition in

20 

Section 1.4.01 of the Plan).

7.1.03.     Change of Control Participant      shall mean any Employee who prior to the second
anniversary of a Change of Control:

(a) is involuntarily terminated from employment for any reason other than solely for Gross Cause;
or

(b) suffers a Constructive Termination.

Provided, however, that no employee who has entered into a written employment contract with
MetLife, Inc., the Company, a Subsidiary, or an Affiliate or who is an Executive as defined in the
MetLife Executive Severance Plan, in each case as of the time of the employee s termination of
employment, shall be a Change of Control Participant. For purposes of determining who is a Change
of Control Participant, the Company or Subsidiary shall not conclusively determine the
classification of Employee in its sole and absolute discretion.

7.1.04.     Constructive Termination      shall mean a voluntary termination of employment by an
Employee within ten (10) business days after any of the following actions by the Company,
Subsidiary, or person acting on behalf of either:

(a) requiring the Employee to be based as his/her regular or customary place employment at any
office or location more than 50 miles from the location at which the Employee performed his duties
immediately prior to the Change of Control, or in a state other than the one in which the Employee
performed his duties immediately prior to the Change of Control, in each case except for travel
reasonably required in the performance of the employee s responsibilities;

(b) reducing the Employee s base salary below the rate in effect at the time of a Change of

21 

Control; or

(c) failing to pay the Employee s base salary, other wages, or employment-related benefits as
required by law.

Failure by the Employee to voluntarily terminate employment within ten (10) business days of the
occurrence of any event described in this definition shall not waive the Employee s right to
voluntary terminate employment as a Constructive Discharge within ten (10) business days of any
subsequent event described in this definition.

7.1.05.     Gross Cause      shall mean:

(a) the Employee s conviction or plea of  nolo contendere  to a felony; or

(b) an act of dishonesty or gross misconduct on the Employee s part which results or is intended
to result in material damage to the Company s or Subsidiary s business or reputation.

7.1.06.     Change of Control Separation Agreement      shall mean an agreement in the form of
Appendix A to this Plan with the exact amount of Change of Control Severance Pay, as determined by
the terms of this Plan, inserted where indicated. The Plan Administrator may, however, change the
return address indicated in Appendix A.

7.1.07.     Change of Control Severance Pay      shall mean cash in at least the amount of
Severance Pay as determined by Section 1.4.20 for a Job Elimination Participant; provided, however,
that the Company shall not have the power to exercise any discretion to pay any lesser amount.
Solely for purposes of determining Change of Control Severance Pay:

(a)  Salary,  as used for purposes of determining  Equivalent Week s Salary,  shall mean at least
the Employee s base salary immediately prior to the Change of Control, excluding overtime,

22 

premium pay, incentive compensation, and bonus payments paid to the Employee by the Company or
Subsidiary for services rendered, before any payroll deductions, including taxes;

(b)  Service  shall be determined as provided by Section 1.4.19 of the Plan; provided however that
the MetLife Options Plus Summary Plan Description Book (or the applicable summary plan description
of the successor plan to MetLife Options, should Metlife Options be replaced with a successor plan)
in force immediately prior to the Special Period and the Company s Continuous Service Date Policy
in force immediately prior to the Change of Control shall be used for that purpose.

7.1.08.     Change of Control Outplacement Assistance      shall mean an outplacement assistance
program of at least the duration, quality, and value as was routinely provided to those
Participants who were provided with such a program prior to the Change of Control.

7.1.09.     Excise Tax      shall mean the tax imposed under Section 4999 of the United States
Internal Revenue Code, as amended (or any similar tax that may hereafter be imposed).

7.2    Amendment and Termination of the Plan after a Change of Control.   Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan, this Plan shall neither be terminated, nor shall this Plan be amended,
nor shall the Company or Subsidiary cease to be covered by this Plan, upon a Change of Control and
until the second anniversary of that Change of Control.

7.3    Purpose of the Plan.   Upon a Change of Control, and until the second anniversary of
that Change of Control, the purpose of the Plan shall be deemed to be  A Plan to Provide for the
Payment of Special Severance Pay and Other Benefits to Certain Employees Whose Employment
Terminates. 

23 

7.4    Eligibility for Special Severance Pay and Special Outplacement Assistance After a Change
of Control.   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall
offer a Change of Control Agreement to each Change of Control Participant
within ten (10) business
days of the termination of a Change of Control Participant s employment (as determined by this
Article), and shall have no discretion to decline to do so or to offer any amount of severance pay
in the Change of Control Agreement lower than the Change of Control Severance Pay provided by the
terms of this Plan. The Plan Administrator shall pay Change of Control Severance Pay and provide
Special Outplacement Assistance to each Special Participant who executes a Change of Control
Agreement that becomes final, according to the terms of the Change of Control Separation Agreement.

7.5    Modification of Payments   .  In the event that any of the payments or benefits under
this Plan to a Participant would be an Excess Parachute Payment as defined in Section 280G of the
Code, and would thereby subject the Change of Control Participant to any excise tax, and the net
after-tax benefit that the Participant would receive by reducing payments and benefits under this
Plan to the maximum amount which may be paid or provided to the Change of Control Participant
without the Change of Control Participant becoming subject to any excise tax as a result of all
payments or benefits due to the Change of Control Participant is greater than the net after-tax
benefit the Executive would receive if the full amounts due under this Plan were paid to the Change
of Control Participant, then the Change of Control Severance Pay payable to the Change of Control
Participant shall be reduced (but not below zero) so that the Change of Control Severance Pay and
all other payments or benefits due to the Change of Control Participant do not exceed the amount of
the Payment Cap. In making any and all determinations under this Section 7.5, the same assumptions
and analyses shall be applied as are applied under

24 

Section 3(c)(iii) and (iv) of the MetLife Executive Severance Plan.

7.6    Eligibility for Other Benefits After a Change of Control.   A Special Participant
shall be considered a Participant under the
Plan for any and all purposes under the Plan and other
employee benefit plans of any Company or Subsidiary.

7.7    Restricted Powers of the Plan Administrator   .  Upon a Change of Control, and until the
second anniversary of that Change of Control:

(a) the Plan Administrator shall not have the power to interpret and construe the provisions of
the Plan in its discretion, nor have any of its powers or rights under Section 6.4 of this Plan,
nor have the power to decide any disputes that may arise as to the rights of Employees to the
benefits under the Plan or other employee benefit plans to the extent those rights depend on rights
under this Plan;

(b) no provision of this Plan shall entitle the Plan Administrator to standard of legal review of
any of its decisions or determinations other than a plenary,  de novo  standard, or be
construed to suggest that such standard of review is appropriate;

(c) the Plan Administrator s decisions and determinations during a Special Period shall be subject
to a plenary,  de novo  standard of legal review; and

(d) the Plan Administrator shall not have the power to adopt any new rules and procedures, or
modify or terminate such rules and procedures as were adopted and were in force immediately prior
to a Special Period.

7.8    Change of Control Claims Review Procedure.   With regard to claims submitted on
account of a termination of employment on or after a Change of Control and prior to the

25 

Second anniversary of that Change of Control:

(a) the period for Plan Administrator notification of claim determination shall be ten
(10) business days from reciept of the claim, rather than the period otherwise provided in Section 5.5(a);

(b) the extended period for Plan Administrator notification of claim determination shall be thirty
(30) days, rather than the period otherwise provided in Section 5.5(a);

(c) the period for Plan Administrator notification of decision on review of a claim shall be ten
(10) business days from receipt of the claim, rather than the period otherwise provided in Section
5.5(b);

(d) the extended period for Plan Administrator notification of decision on review of a claim shall
be thirty (30) days, rather than the period otherwise provided in Section 5.5(b).

7.9    Limitation of Subsequent Amendments or Termination.   Upon a Change of Control, no
subsequent amendment or termination of this Plan shall diminish a Change of Control Participant s
rights under this Plan. No amendment or termination of this Plan after a Change of Control shall
amend or affect either this Section 7.9 or Section 6.3 of this Plan.

7.10    Recovery with Interest.   Any Change of Control Participant who is a prevailing party
in any suit to recover unpaid Change of Control Severance Pay under this Plan, to enforce the terms
of this Plan, or for breach of a Change of Control Separation Agreement shall be entitled, as
liquidated damages and not as a penalty, to pre-judgment and post-judgment interest compounded
daily from the date of the breach of duty or other wrong and until payment is made in full, on any
monies due as damages or otherwise a result of such breach of duty or wrong. The interest rate for
such purpose shall be the prime rate (as determined by the rate or average rate

26 

published by the Wall Street Journal for the majority of major banks on the date of the breach or
wrongful action or failure to act) plus two percent (2%).

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and each Subsidiary cause this MetLife Plan for Transition
Assistance to be executed on the date indicated below each signature.

METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 

By

/s/ Lynne E. DiStasio

Lynne E. DiStasio

Vice-President, Employee Relations 

Plan Administrator 

27 

APPENDIX A TO THE METLIFE PLAN FOR TRANSITION ASSISTANCE

SEPARATION AGREEMENT, WAIVER, AND GENERAL RELEASE 

This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement and understanding which has been reached
relative to the cessation of your (   ) employment with MetLife, Inc. or an affiliate thereof, as
the case may be (such employer,  MetLife ). It is fully agreed and understood as follows:

1. You agree that you release and discharge MetLife, its subsidiaries, and its affiliates,
including but not limited to MetLife, Inc. (collectively,  the Company ) from any and all claims,
demands, actions, liability, damages, back pay, attorneys  fees, or rights of any and every kind or
nature which you have against the Company arising out of arising out of or related to the
discontinuance of your employment by MetLife, including claims arising under the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act, as amended. You agree to waive your rights, if any, under Section 1542 of the
California Civil Code, which states   A  GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE
CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH
IF KNOWN BY HIM /HER  MUST HAVE MUTUALLY AFFECTED HIS /HER  SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR,  and your
rights, if any, under the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act. This Agreement does
not affect any rights that you may have arising out of events that occur after you have executed
this Agreement.

2. In consideration for the release set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement, MetLife, Inc.
agrees to (a) pay you the sum of $                      , less legally-required withholding for taxes
(the  Severance Pay ), in a lump sum; (b) provide you with outplacement services as described more
fully in an exhibit to this Agreement. These payments and services are in additional to anything
of value to which you are already entitled. Severance Pay will be paid to you on before March 15
of the calendar year after the earlier of this Separation Agreement being offered to you or your
last day of active service as an employee of MetLife, Inc. and its affiliates.

3. You have forty-five (45) days in which to review this Agreement and fully consider its
terms and any disclosure information that is attached as an exhibit to this Agreement prior to
signing it. You should consult with legal counsel prior to signing this Agreement (if you
live/work in West Virginia, you may contact the state Bar Association, if you wish, at
1-800-642-3617). You may accept this Agreement by fully executing it and returning it to MetLife,
Inc. at 1 MetLife Plaza, Long Island City, NY 11101 attention: General Counsel by no later than
5:00 p.m. on the forty-fifth (45 th ) day after your receipt of it. After you have
executed this Agreement, you will have seven (7) days to revoke this Agreement (except that if you
are/were employed in Minnesota you will have fifteen (15) days to revoke this Agreement), which you
may do by indicating your desire to do so in writing directed to MetLife, Inc. at the above address
and attention. MetLife, Inc. must receive any revocation no later than 5:00 p.m. on the seventh
(7 th ) day following the date on which you executed this Agreement (except that if you
are/were employed in Minnesota, MetLife, Inc. must receive your revocation by 5:00 PM on the
fifteenth (15 th ) day following the date you executed this Agreement or you must have
your revocation postmarked and sent by certified mail return receipt requested by the fifteenth
(15 th ) day following the date you executed this Agreement). This Agreement will become
effective on the eighth (8 th ) day following your execution of this Agreement (except
that if you are/were

28 

employed in Minnesota, this Agreement will become effective on the sixteenth (16 th )
date following your execution of this Agreement) (the  Effective Date ), provided you have not
revoked it.

4. This Agreement may not be changed except in a writing that specifically references this
Agreement and that is signed by you and an officer of MetLife. Any written stock option agreement
into which you may have entered during your employment with MetLife remains in full force and
effect.

I accept this Agreement:

Signature

Name

Date

METLIFE

By:

Signature 

Name

Date

29 

</EX-10.84>

<EX-12.1>
 18
 y81517exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1

exv12w1 

Exhibit 12.1

MetLife, Inc. 
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 19
 y81517exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1

exv21w1 

Exhibit 21.1

METLIFE, INC.  
As of December 31, 2009

Wholly-Owned Active Subsidiaries 1  

23 RD  STREET INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 
85 BROAD STREET LLC (DE) 
85 BROAD STREET MEZZANINE LLC (CT) 
334 MADISON EURO INVESTMENTS, INC. (DE) 
500 GRANT STREET GP LLC (DE) 
500 GRANT STREET ASSOCIATES LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
ALTERNATIVE FUEL I, LLC (DE) 
BEST MARKET S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
BOND TRUST ACCOUNT A (MA) 
CITYPOINT HOLDINGS II LIMITED (UK) 
CML COLUMBIA PARK FUND I LLC (DE) 
COMPANIA PREVISIONAL METLIFE S.A. (BRAZIL) 
CONVENT STATION EURO INVESTMENTS FOUR COMPANY (UK) 
CORPORATE REAL ESTATE HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
CORRIGAN TLP LLC (DE) 
COVA LIFE MANAGEMENT COMPANY (DE) 
CRB CO., INC. (MA) 
ECONOMY FIRE   CASUALTY COMPANY (IL) 
ECONOMY PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
ECONOMY PREMIER ASSURANCE COMPANY (IL) 
ENTERPRISE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (DE) 
ENTRECAP REAL ESTATE II LLC (DE) 
EXETER REASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD. (BERMUDA) 
EURO CL INVESTMENTS, LLC (DE) 
EURO TI INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
EURO TL INVESTMENTS LLC (DE) 
FEDERAL FLOOD CERTIFICATION CORP (TX) 
FIRST METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
FUNDACION METLIFE MEXICO, A.C. (MEXICO) 
GENAMERICA CAPITAL I (DE) 
GENAMERICA FINANCIAL, LLC (DE) 
KRISMAN, INC. (MO) 
GENERAL AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.L.C. (DE) 
GREENWICH STREET CAPITAL OFFSHORE FUND, LTD (VIRGIN ISLANDS) 
GREENWICH STREET INVESTMENTS, L.P. (DE) 
HEADLAND-PACIFIC PALISADES, LLC (CA) 
HEADLAND PROPERTIES ASSOCIATES (CA) 
HOUSING FUND MANAGER, LLC (DE) 
HYATT LEGAL PLANS, INC. (DE) 
HYATT LEGAL PLANS OF FLORIDA, INC. (FL) 
HPZ ASSETS LLC (DE) 
MET1 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET2 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO)

1  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures
and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an
investment partner. 

MET3 SIEFORE BASICA, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET4 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET5 SIEFORE, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
META SIEFORE ADICIONAL, S.A. de C.V. (MEXICO) 
MET AFJP S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
MET P C MANAGING GENERAL AGENCY, INC. (TX) 
METLIFE ADMINISTRADORA DE FUNDOS MULTIPATROCINADOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
METLIFE ADVISERS, LLC (MA) 
METLIFE AFFILIATED INSURANCE AGENCY LLC (DE) 
METLIFE AFORE, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE ASSOCIATES LLC (DE) 
METLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED (UK) 
METLIFE AUTO   HOME INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. (RI) 
METLIFE BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (USA) 
METLIFE CANADA/ METVIE CANADA (CANADA) 
METLIFE CANADIAN PROPERTY VENTURES LLC (NY) 
METLIFE CAPITAL CREDIT L.P. (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST IV (DE) 
METLIFE CAPITAL TRUST X (DE) 
METLIFE CHILE ADMINISTRADORA DE MUTUOS HIPOTECARIOS S.A. (CHILE) 
METLIFE CHILE INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
METLIFE CHILE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (CHILE) 
METLIFE CREDIT CORP.(DE) 
METLIFE DIRECT CO.,LTD.(JAPAN) 
METLIFE EUROPEAN HOLDINGS, LLC. (DE) 
METLIFE EUROPE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE EUROPE SERVICES LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE EXCHANGE TRUST I (DE) 
METLIFE FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF MASSACHUSETTS, INC.(MA) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE AGENCY OF TEXAS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GENERAL INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE GLOBAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION (MEXICO) 
METLIFE GLOBAL, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE GLOBAL OPERATIONS SUPPORT CENTER PRIVATE LIMITED(INDIA) 
METLIFE GROUP, INC. (NY) 
METLIFE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE IRELAND HOLDINGS ONE LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE IRELAND HOLDINGS TWO LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF CONNECTICUT (CT) 
METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INSURANCE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT TRUST (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INSURANCE S.A./NV (BELGIUM) 
METLIFE INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INTERNATIONAL LIMITED, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT ADVISORS COMPANY, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS ASIA LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS SERVICES LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE INVESTMENT FUNDS MANAGEMENT LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE INVESTMENTS PTY LIMITED (AUSTRALIA) 
METLIFE INVESTORS DISTRIBUTION COMPANY (MO) 
METLIFE INVESTORS GROUP, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE INVESTORS INSURANCE COMPANY (MO) 
METLIFE INVESTORS USA INSURANCE COMPANY (DE)

METLIFE LATIN AMERICA ASESORIAS E INVERSIONES LIMITADA (CHILE) 
METLIFE LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METLIFE LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE MEXICO CARES, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE MEXICO SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE NC LIMITED (IRELAND) 
METLIFE PENSIONS TRUSTEES LIMITED (UK) 
METLIFE PENSIONES MEXICO S.A. (MEXICO) 
METLIFE PLANOS ODONTOLOGICOS LTDA. (BRAZIL) 
METLIFE PRIVATE EQUITY HOLDINGS, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE PROPERTY VENTURES CANADA ULC(CANADA) 
METLIFE PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE REAL ESTATE CAYMAN COMPANY (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF CHARLESTON (SC) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (SC) 
METLIFE REINSURANCE COMPANY OF VERMONT (VT) 
METLIFE RETIREMENT SERVICES LLC (NJ) 
METLIFE SAENGMYOUNG INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. (SOUTH KOREA)- (also known as MetLife Insurance Company of Korea Limited) 
METLIFE SECURITIES, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE SEGUROS DE RETIRO S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
METLIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (ARGENTINA) 
METLIFE SERVICES EAST PRIVATE LIMITED (INDIA) 
METLIFE SERVICES LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METLIFE SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE SERVICES (SINGAPORE)PTE LIMITED (SINGAPORE) 
METLIFE SOLUTIONS PTE. LTD. (SINGAPORE) 
METLIFE STANDBY I, LLC (DE) 
METLIFE TAIWAN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (TAIWAN) 
METLIFE TOWER RESOURCES GROUP, INC. (DE) 
METLIFE TOWARZYSTWO UBEZPIECZEN NA ZYCIE POLSKA AKCYJNA (POLAND) 
METLIFE WORLDWIDE HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
METPARK FUNDING, INC. (DE) 
METROPOLITAN CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN CONNECTICUT PROPERTIES VENTURES, LLC (DE) 
METROPOLITAN DIRECT PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN GROUP PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (NY) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF HONG KONG LIMITED (HONG KONG) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS DE VIDA S.A. (URUGUAY) 
METROPOLITAN LLOYDS, INC. (TX) 
METROPOLITAN LIFE SEGUROS E PREVID NCIA PRIVADA S.A. (BRAZIL) 
METROPOLITAN MARINE WAY INVESTMENTS LIMITED (CANADA) 
METROPOLITAN PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY (RI) 
METROPOLITAN REALTY MANAGEMENT, INC. (DE) 
METROPOLITAN REINSURANCE COMPANY (U.K.) LIMITED (UNITED KINGDOM) 
METROPOLITAN TOWER LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (DE) 
METROPOLITAN TOWER REALTY COMPANY, INC.(DE) 
MEX DF PROPERTIES, LLC (DE) 
MIDTOWN HEIGHTS, LLC (DE) 
MISSOURI REINSURANCE (BARBADOS), INC. (BARBADOS) 
MLA COMERCIAL, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
MLA SERVICIOS, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
ML CAPACITACION COMERCIAL S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
ML/VCC GILROY, LLC (DE)

ML/VCC UT WEST JORDAN, LLC (DE) 
MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS LLC (DE) 
MLIC ASSET HOLDINGS II LLC (DE) 
MSV IRVINE PROPERTY, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND I, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND II, LLC (DE) 
MTC FUND III, LLC (DE) 
MTL LEASING, LLC (DE) 
NATILOPORTEM HOLDINGS, INC. (DE) 
NEW ENGLAND LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (MA) 
NEW ENGLAND SECURITIES CORPORATION (MA) 
NEWBURY INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED (BERMUDA) 
ONE FINANCIAL PLACE CORPORATION (DE) 
ONE MADISON INVESTMENTS (CAYCO) LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
PANTHER VALLEY, INC. (NJ) 
PARK TWENTY THREE INVESTMENTS COMPANY (UNITED KINGDOM) 
PARTNERS TOWER, L.P. (DE) 
PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND I, LLC (DE) 
PLAZA DRIVE PROPERTIES LLC (DE) 
PLAZA LLC (CT) 
PREFCO IX REALTY LLC (CT) 
PREFCO X HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 
PREFCO XIV HOLDINGS LLC (CT) 
PREFCO DIX-HUIT LLC (CT) 
PREFCO FOURTEEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO TEN LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO TWENTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP (CT) 
PREFCO VINGT LLC (CT) 
SAFEGUARD DENTAL SERVICES, INC. (DE) 
SAFEGUARD HEATLH ENTERPRISES, INC. (DE) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (CA) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (FL) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (NV) 
SAFEGUARD HEALTH PLANS, INC. (TX) 
SAFEHEALTH LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY (CA) 
SERVICIOS ADMINISTRATIVOS GEN, S.A. DE C.V. (MEXICO) 
SPECIAL MULTI-ASSET RECEIVABLES TRUST (DELAWARE) 
ST. JAMES FLEET INVESTMENTS TWO LIMITED (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TEN PARK SPC (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
THE BUILDING AT 575 FIFTH LLC (DE) 
THE BUILDING AT 575 FIFTH AVENUE MEZZANINE LLC (DE) 
THE PROSPECT COMPANY (DE) 
THORNGATE, LLC (DE) 
TH TOWER LEASING, LLC (DE) 
TH TOWER NGP, LLC (DE) 
TIC EUROPEAN REAL ESTATE LP, LLC (DE) 
TLA HOLDINGS LLC (DE) 
TLA HOLDINGS II LLC (DE) 
TLA HOLDINGS III LLC (DE) 
TOWER SQUARE SECURITIES, INC. (CT) 
TRAL   CO.(CT) 
TRANSMOUNTAIN LAND   LIVESTOCK COMPANY (MT) 
TRAVELERS INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS LTD. (CAYMAN ISLANDS) 
TRIBECA DISTRESSED SECURITIES, L.L.C. (DE) 
WALNUT STREET SECURITIES, INC. (MO) 
WHITE OAK ROYALTY COMPANY (OK)

METLIFE, INC. 
As of December 31, 2009 

Companies of which MetLife, Inc. directly or indirectly has actual ownership (for its own account)
of 10% through 99% of the total  outstanding voting stock 2  

PILGRIM ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS OPPORTUNITY FUND III ASSOCIATES, LLC (67%) (CT) 

LONG TERM CARE PARTNERS, LLC (50%) (DE)

METLIFE INDIA INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED (26%) (INDIA) 

METROPOLITAN LLOYDS INSURANCE COMPANY OF TEXAS 3  (TX)

2  
       
     Does not include real estate joint ventures
and partnerships of which MetLife, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries is an
investment partner. 

3  
       
     Affiliate 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 20
 y81517exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1

exv23w1 

Exhibit 23.1

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-147180,
333-147180-01, 333-147180-02, 333-147180-03, 333-147180-04 and 333-147180-05 on Form S-3 and
333-162927, 333-162926, 333-148024, 333-139384, 333-139383, 333-139382, 333-139380, 333-121344,
333-121343, 333-121342, 333-102306, 333-101291, 333-59134 and 333-37108 on Form S-8 of our report
on the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules of MetLife, Inc., and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) dated February 26, 2010 (which expresses an unqualified opinion and
includes an explanatory paragraph regarding changes in the Company s method of accounting for the
recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairment losses for certain investments as
required by accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009, its method of accounting for certain
assets and liabilities to a fair value measurement approach as required by accounting guidance
adopted on January 1, 2008, and its method of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for
income taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007) and our report on the
effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting dated February 26, 2010,
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009.

/s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York 
February 26, 2010

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 21
 y81517exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

Exhibit 31.1

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:
February 26, 2010

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson

C. Robert Henrikson   

Chairman, President and  
Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 22
 y81517exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

Exhibit 31.2

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of MetLife, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations
and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within
those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;

b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date:
February 26, 2010

/s/ William J. Wheeler

William J. Wheeler  

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 23
 y81517exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

exv32w1 

Exhibit 32.1

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, C. Robert Henrikson, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2009 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date:
February 26, 2010

/s/ C. Robert Henrikson

C. Robert Henrikson  

Chairman, President and
 
Chief Executive Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to MetLife,
Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 24
 y81517exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

exv32w2 

Exhibit 32.2

SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE

I, William J. Wheeler, certify that (i) MetLife, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2009 (the  Form 10-K ) fully complies with the requirements of Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and (ii) the information contained in the
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of MetLife, Inc.

Date:
February 26, 2010

/s/ William J. Wheeler

William J. Wheeler  

Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to MetLife,
Inc. and will be retained by MetLife, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
or its staff upon request.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 26
 met-20091231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 27
 met-20091231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 28
 met-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 29
 met-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 30
 met-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 31
 met-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

COVER
 33
 filename33.htm

cover 

February 26, 2010

VIA EDGAR   
Securities and Exchange Commission 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington D.C. 20549

Dear Sir or Madam:

On behalf of MetLife, Inc. (the  Company ), transmitted herewith is the Company s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the  Form 10-K ).

As discussed in Note 1, the Company changed its method of accounting for the recognition and
presentation of other-than-temporary impairment losses for certain investments as required by
accounting guidance adopted on April 1, 2009, changed its method of accounting for certain assets
and liabilities to a fair value measurement approach as required by accounting guidance adopted on
January 1, 2008, and changed its method of accounting for deferred acquisition costs and for income
taxes as required by accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2007.

Sincerely,

/s/ Joselyn A. Cruz

Joselyn A. Cruz

Attachment

